# Interview with BAND-MAID on natalie: “Brand New MAID” (2016-05-17)

**Date:** 2016-05-17  
**Publication:** Natalie  
**Interviewer:** Tanaka, Kazuhiro  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rru96o/interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_brand_new_maid/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rru96o/interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_brand_new_maid/)  
**Original URL:** [https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid](https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid)  

---

BAND-MAID, a five-member girls rock band formed by Miku Kobato (Vo, G), who used to work at a maid cafe, will release their mini album ""Brand New MAID"" on May 18. The band gained recognition outside of Japan when their song ""Thrill"" released from their indie label was introduced by an overseas website. Soon after they successfully held their first overseas concert in the US in March. We talked to the five members, who will be making their major label debut with this album, about how BAND-MAID was formed, what it means to work in maid uniforms, and the appeal of their new album."

Interviewer: Tanaka, Kazuhiro Photo: Nishimaki Taichi


- Please tell us how BAND-MAID was formed. The band was formed by Miku Kobato, who used to work at a maid cafe in Akihabara, but why did you decide to start a band?

Miku Kobato (G, Vo): When I was in high school, I went to see a lot of bands perform live, and I thought I'd like to try my hand at it someday. When I was working part-time as a maid after graduating from high school, I thought it would be interesting to combine a band and a maid. So the name of the band, "band" and "maid" as it is (laughs).

- How did you find the members?

Miku: Kanami posted a cover video on the internet. I thought she was really good, so I contacted her.

Tono Kanami (G): I used to be a singer-songwriter, but I really wanted to join a band and play lead guitar. I heard about the concept of a band wearing maid uniforms from Miku. I happened to have played in a band wearing maid uniforms when I was in high school, so I didn't mind.

Akane Hirose (Dr.): I was asked to join the band becuase I had supported Kanami before. Then MISA

MISA (B) Akane and I had been working together for a long time, so it was easy to talk to her.

- And about a month after the formation, Saiki (vo) joined the band. Why did you decide to add a new member right away?

Miku: We had already prepared some songs. We tried playing live with just the four of us right after we formed, but we felt that we wanted a heavier sound. I was convinced that the voice of Saiki, who was in the same management, would be a good fit for BAND-MAID, so I asked her to join us.

- Miku is currently a guitarist and vocalist, but you were originally a vocalist only, right?

Miku: When Saiki joined the band, we changed to twin vocals and two guitars.

Kanami: From the time the band was formed, the members had talked about having two guitars. We thought that with twin guitars we could approach to the music in cooler and heavier style. If we played cute songs with maid's outfits, the same image came from the appearance and sound.

- Saiki-san, when you received the offer, what did you think of the visual and sound concept?

Saiki (Vo): At first, I wasn't told that I would be wearing a maid's outfit.

Miku: I hid it (laughs). (laughs) I didn't have any resistance from Kanami, but Akane and MISA did, so when I invited Saiki, I tried to get her interested in the sound side first.

Saiki: I was told that she would be dressed in a rather cute outfit. I thought it was cool when I heard the songs first. I decided to join the band thinking "I'm not going to wear a maid's uniform of all" but I found a headdress and an apron in the dressing room (laughs).

Kanami: You were deceived, weren't you?(laughs)

Saiki: But the song was so cool that I didn't want to turn it down.

- Did you ever feel uncomfortable wearing a maid's uniform?

Saiki: Before I started, I thought "I wonder what this will be like". But I didn't feel uncomfortable when I stood on the stage for the first time. In fact I felt crisper with the fixed costume and the concept.

- By the way, MISA-san, what did you think about when you joined?

MISA: Originally I was in an alternative band like The Smashing Pumpkins, so I wondered what a maid's outfit would be like. But I was asked to join the band when the previous band had decided to break up, so I gave it a night's thought.

- You didn't want to miss the chance to continue a band.

MISA: Yes, I wanted to continue as a bassist and the demo sounded cool, so I decided to do it.

- When you first formed the band, your costumes were cuter than now, almost identical maid outfits. Now each of you wear different costumes.

Miku: At first we were trying to figure out what style would be cool and fit us well, so we kept the matching maid costumes.

Akane: In terms of sound, we were more of a pop band and didn't go the hard route. I didn't use twin pedals until "Thrill".

- "Thrill" is a b-side of the first single "Ai to Jonetsu no Matador" (released in August 2014), isn't it?

Miku: When we were searching for the ideal sound, "Thrill" was born. All the members agreed on the musicality of BAND-MAID. "From now on, let's do songs that are more like 'Thrill'", the direction of the band was decided by a b-side of a single (laughs).

- Your mini-album "New Beginning" was released in November 2015 and is now available on iTunes stores overseas. When did you start thinking about expanding overseas?

Miku: From the very beginning, we were aware that we wanted to compete in the world as a band that combines "cute" and "cool". Our first self-produced album was titled "Maid in Japan". From that point on, we made it clear that we wanted to go overseas from Japan.

- I heard that your first overseas concert in the U.S. in March was a great success (BAND-MAID's first overseas gig atrracted 3,000 People in Seattle).

Miku: I was so surprised. When I saw the venue, I was worried because the floor was so big. When I entered behind the stage right before the show, I heard a lot of BAND-MAID calls.

Akane: It was very exciting. I couldn't believe it until I got on stage (laughs).

- How did the overseas concert come about?

Miku: The music video for "Thrill" was introduced on an overseas website called "Jrock Radio". The organizer of Sakura-Con (a convention event to introduce Japanese culture) liked it and we performed there.

Saiki: The influence of "Jrock Radio" was so strong that our Twitter followers increased a lot.

Kanami: That's right. The views on the music video uploaded to YouTube also increased.

Miku: The song "Thrill" was the reason why you were able to expand overseas, wasn't it? I had no idea that this song would not only be a turning point for the direction of the band, but also that it would have such an impact on me.

- By the way, how did you deal with MC part in overseas gigs?

Saiki: I was told by the organizer that the local people wanted the same content as the performance in Japan, so I did most of it in Japanese.

Kanami: But I introduced myself in English. There is a video of it on YouTube, and the members still talk about it (laughs).

- Why is that?

Saiki: In Japan we don't talk much at live performances except for Miku, so it was fun to see how enthusiastic she was (laughs). It's a good memory.

Kanami: I'll try my best to speak English better!

- When you perform in Japan, you do the so-called "moe" type of call and response that incorporates maid café culture, right? Do you do this overseas as well?

Miku: I explained it in simple English and then did it all in Japanese. During the live performance, we called "moe moe" and the loudness of responding "Moe moe!" (laughs).

- Even though you've only done one live show overseas, to be honest, the response was better than in Japan, wasn't it?

Miku: Oh, ...... You're probably right, we have more followers on Twitter from people overseas. My dream is to expand overseas but I think I need to work harder in Japan first.

- What is your impression of your main fan base in Japan: band fans or idol fans?

Miku: I think there are more idol fans, but recently more and more people are starting to like us because of our music. Because I was hoping to attract both types of fans, either from the idol or music elements, so we are doing good.

Saiki: Since we're working in this kind of style, we want to make the most of our strengths, don't we?

Akane: I want to attract a variety of people regardless of genre. I think BAND-MAID is the one that can achieve that. We don't want to limit ourselves to just one genre. We want to attract fashion lovers, girl band lovers, music lovers, idol lovers, anyone who wants to come! It would be nice if we could convey more of that message.

- Five of the eight songs on this album were written by people outside the band. Did the band members have any opinions about the lyrics you received?

Miku: We would sometimes ask them to change the wording of the lyrics to make it easier for Saiki and I to sing, or to change the nuances.

Saiki: The lyrics were completed after a lot of back and forth about the endings of words and other details. It is basically us two who decide which part to sing.

- For "YURAGU," Miku-san and Saiki-san wrote the lyrics.

Miku: About the wrting process of lyrics, Sai-chan messaged me a rough idea of what atmosphere she want for the song and I wrote it up.

Saiki: The text I messaged was, "Write something like, 'not seeming to know but I know, you know'".

- What do you mean by that?

Miku: She is really vague in her message (laughs). The basic theme of BAND-MAID's lyrics is the image of a strong woman, so I wrote the lyrics with an image of strong self-assertion rather than weakness. YURAGU is about "pretending not to know what you're talking about but I really know what you mean".

- I see. Miku-san wrote the lyrics for "FREEDOM" by yourself.

Miku: Yes. It's a song with a lot of energy. I thought it would be better if the lyrics were straightforward as well. I wrote the lyrics with more outright expressions.

Kanami: Some fans have commented on the melancholy in the lyrics of our songs. In FREEDOM, we purposely eliminated the melancholic element.

Akane: In this song, I tried to make the lyrics stand out by keeping the accompaniment simple.

- How did you decide on the songs for the album?

Miku: For the most part, we had the songwriters produce the songs for this album. The members and staff talked about the overall image beforehand. We explained it to the songwriters and picked up the candidates.

- What exactly did you want this album to be?

Saiki: I wanted to express the sense of speed and aggressiveness of "REAL EXISTENCE" from the previous album.

Kanami: "REAL EXISTENCE" was popular among the fans of the last album and we really liked it ourselves. We also wanted to make another hard rock song like "Thrill". We aimed to create an established image for the whole album by mixing the elements of these two songs.

- Contrary to the established image, "Brand New Road" is jazzy and unique in this album.

Akane: "Brand New Road," has a jazz-like phrase in the bass solo. I think it's a song to be an accent in the album not to make it feel monotonous.

Kanami: It's the first time for BAND-MAID to have a song with a rock sound and a jazzy groove, isn't it?

Akane: I couldn't cover it up with speed, so I became very sensitive to the slightest desync in rhythm. It took me a long time to get a satisfactory result in recording. I was very particular about the shuffle feel of snare drum.

- Akane-san, have you ever been in a jazz band?

Akane: I've played in jazz bands as support. It's difficult to get the right groove. The drums in "Brand New Road" were inspired by TOTO's shuffle feel. It may not be my original, but I was able to create a rhythm pattern that I had never had before. Discussing with MISA, I used the bass line from Sting's "Englishman in New York" as a reference for the bass drum combination.

MISA: We talked a lot about the groove. I had only learned it at a music school It was the first time for me to think of jazzy phrases.

- I also found interesting the dramatic development of "Look at Me" .

Kanami: I was surprised when I received the demo thinking, "Oh, they modulate the song here" (laughs). In this song, the key goes up when the guitar solo starts, and then the tempo drops at the end of the solo. I like intense solos and also like slow solos. This song allows me to do everything I want to do. I also added a wah. For this song I changed the wah pedal from Crybaby to Morley's so that I could switch quickly. I renewed the system for live performances.

- "Alone" is a song that the band wrote the lyrics and the music for.

MISA This is the only song that was written by the band. I especially like the bass line in the B melody and the cool arrangement. I could produce the powerful tone that makes me feel good while playing.

Kanami: I also like this song because I was able to incorporate my favorite harmonic minor, diminished and disturbing sounding chord progressions and solos.

Akane: For the drums, I took a different approach for the A melody and B melody. For the snare drum, it was fun to create various patterns that combined with the bass drum using twin pedals.

- "Before yesterday" was composed by Okamoto, Hitoshi of Garnet Crow?

Saiki: This is my favorite song because it's super emo. It's not a kind of emo that I had within me.

- How do you sing a feeling that you don't have in yourself?

Saiki: I feel like I'm singing from an objective point of view, like I'm looking at the characters in the lyrics, or I'm looking at myself singing from objective perspective.

- What are your goals for the future?

Miku: Our current goal is to be able to write all the lyrics and songs by ourselves.

Akane: It's all about improving our performance skills. I feel that if you don't have the ability to perform, no matter how cute you are, you won't be recognized, especially overseas. It's a challenge for me to be recognized for my ability and performance.

- Are you going to perform at any festivals in the future?

All: We want!!

Miku: I have a strong desire but nothing is planned yet.

Saiki: I love big venues. If given an opportunity I will hype up the audience non-stop.

- You've been performing at live music venues in Japan, not only with girl bands and female vocal bands, but also with hardcore rock bands and visual-K bands.

Saiki: We've been playing for about half a year now with bands that have quite strong characters.

Miku: We want to continue working with those musicians and become BAND-MAID with more contrasting gap between cuteness and coolness.

- I see. Even though it's a mini-album, it's a work with a wide range. I'm looking forward to your future activities.

Saiki: Thank you. I think it's worth listening to.

Miku: It's an image of a maid serving a meal. There is an appetizer, a main course, and a dessert. There is also coffee after the meal.

Kanami: Yes, I think this mini-album will fill you up. I hope you enjoy it at the live performances too.

- By the way, if you could express what you want to do in a visual other than maids, would you take off your maid outfits?

Miku: As long as we are BAND-MAID, we will continue with it! If we stopped being maids, we wouldn't be BAND-MAID anymore (laughs).

Saiki: There's a possibility that we'll become a housekeeper when we get older, though (laughs).
