# Interview with BAND-MAID on natalie: “Just Bring It” (2017-01-11)

**Date:** 2017-01-11  
**Publication:** Natalie  
**Interviewer:** Ato, "DA", Daishi  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rruhxz/interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_just_bring_it/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rruhxz/interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_just_bring_it/)  
**Original URL:** [#https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid02#](#https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid02#)  

---

With their first overseas concert, major label debut and world tour, 2016 was a turbulent year for BAND-MAID. With the start of 2017, the girls released their first full-length album "Just Bring It". The members produced many of the songs themselves, and their performance skills have improved dramatically, making this album the next stage for the band.

The band's environment has changed drastically in a short period of time, and they continue to grow at such a rapid pace that if you don't hold on tight, you might get swept away."

─ I think this year has been a year of upheaval for BAND-MAID. First of all, the world tour that you mentioned as your "immediate goal" in the spring of 2016 came true in October, less than a year later.

Miku Kobato (G, Vo): (applauding) It was realised po.

Saiki (Vo): The world tour was unexpected. I was quite surprised when it was decided. It was like, "This is definitely not true!" (laughs).

- Not to mention but I think the tour was organized in accordance with the band's popularity and growth. Do you feel that way?

KANAMI (G): The number of audience in front of us has been increasing little by little, but I was worried about if there would really be masters and princesses (the generic name for BAND-MAID's male and female fans, respectively) overseas. When we actually went there, they were really there. It made me feel that the band was moving forward a bit.

AKANE (Dr.): We were able to sell out our one-man show in Japan, and we were able to do a world tour. I feel that all the members are steadily achieving our goals.

- For MISA-san, while your are drinking whiskey on stage ......

MISA (B): The year was over (laughs). There was so much stimulation and it all happened so fast. The busiest year of my life.

- I think the world tour was one of the biggest topics of the year for you.

Kobato: As KANAMI said, I was very anxious before I went. After arriving there, I was able to have many experiences and meet many masters and princesses from overseas. I'm really glad I went. My wish to tour around various countries got stronger po.

- I heard that Mexico was one of the most exciting places.

Kobato: It was amazing po! It was a lot of fun.

KANAMI: A lot of masters and princesses came.

- I heard that about a thousand people showed up.

Kobato: Yes. I was really touched that so many masters and princesses came to see me at a large venue we have not experienced in Japan po.

- When I was in Mexico before, I felt that Mexicans seemed quiet when I saw them walking the streets of Mexico City. However, when it came to live performances, they were incredibly enthusiastic.

Kobato: Even during the concert, I wondered if they were okay po.

- What do you mean?

Saiki: There was an hour between the opening and the start of the show. When the doors opened and people started to gather, "BAND-MAID! BAND-MAID!" call started. We were surprised like "Did the show already start? No, there's 40 minutes left!". After a while, it calmed down, but then cheering again "BAND-MAID! BAND-MAID!". I was worried that they would be exhausted before the concert started. It turned out the excitement was at its peak throughout the 90-minute concert. Kobato needed to remind them to take a rest in MC time.

Kobato: I was so worried (laughs). Someone might fall down.

- I don't think it's well known in Japan, but Mexican people are very knowledgeable about Japanese culture.

Saiki: Before the tour, I heard from my manager that Mexico was the hottest country in the world. I did my own research and found out that Japanese culture is very popular there.

- Mexico City has a base for transmitting Japanese culture like Nakano Broadway.

Saiki: The local people also said that. People gather there to buy Japanese goods. There were stalls outside the concert hall, selling a lot of "unofficial" BAND-MAID goods.

Kobato: It was amazing po! Some of it was really high quality.

Saiki: There was even a guy who made a rider's jacket with the BAND-MAID logo on the back (laughs).

Kobato: That was something.

Saiki: Some of the masters and princesses overseas wore such goods. Since it wasn't official, we couldn't react to it in any way (laughs).

- I think the reaction to your songs overseas was different from Japan.

Saiki: That's right. Songs from the indie album "New Beginning" are more popular overseas than the ones from our major label debut. Especially when we play "Arcadia Girl", which is not that popular in Japan, the audience goes "Woo Hoo!".

Kobato: The way the tension rises when I say the title or play the intro before the performance is amazing. It's a slow song which is unusual for BAND-MAID but overseas, the audience just goes wild.

Saiki: Also, in "Before Yesterday," everyone starts buzzing the moment the intro backtrack comes on.

Kobato: When the guitars comes in, they go "Whoo! (laughs).

Saiki: Those two songs are popular overseas. It's totally different from Japan.

- I think it's easier to catch people's feelings when they respond in a straightforward manner.

Kobato: That's right. It's easy to understand. They sing along with us and say, "Amazing!" or "Cool!" during a song.

Saiki: During the interludes, they say things like, "Subarashii" (laughs).

- Like, "Bravo!" (laughs). Were there any other memorable moments during this world tour?

Kobato: During the tour, MISA and I celebrated our birthdays. We were given a surprise at the concert.

MISA: It was my birthday in Germany. Before the concert, a master put a big bottle of Jack Daniel's on the amplifier. It was a great surprise.

- What about you, Kobato-san?

Kobato: In Poland, while the Okyuji (a live performance of BAND-MAID), masters and princesses suddenly started singing a song that sounded like a football chant. I thought, "What's going on? They started having fun by themselves". At the end of the song, someone said, "Happy Birthday, Miku!". I was surprised later when I heared that it was a birthday song in Poland po.

- Akane-san, did you have any memorable experiences?

AKANE: I enjoyed serving of course. I also enjoyed my days off. In Germany, I went to the Cologne Cathedral, and in Spain, I went to the Sagrada Familia. It was also fun to taste the food of each countries.

- I think it was very hard to get around in Europe.

Kobato: It was very hard because we had to travel by car po.

Saiki: We were all sitting with legs cramped in a mini bus loaded with all the equipment and merches.

Kobato: That's how we traveled for six or seven hours (laughs).

- This year, you had the first national tour in Japan. Is there any experience from there that was fed back into the production of this album?

Kobato: Actually, we were working on the album while on tour. We were under a lot of pressure po (laughs).

- Oh, so you were. I checked your schedule for this year. There were so many gigs that I was wondering, "When in the world did you record an album?

Kobato: Haha! (laughs). We did on the days coming back from provincial gigs in a tour po.

- That's tough.

Saiki: I was able to record the song with the raw feel of live reactions. In that sense it was good but I don't want to do it again (laughs).

All: Ahaha (laughs)

- The day after a live performance, not only is your body tired, but your ears are also tired. It's not best condition for recording.

AKANE: Yes. Miku was working hard on the lyrics in the car.

Kobato: That's right. I was like, "Hmmm, ......" while rocking in the car (laughs). I think it made us grow as a result of working under such pressure.

- Normally, you have two or three weeks to concentrate on recording.

Saiki: This time, we switched between live performances and recording.

Kobato: "Yesterday we worked hard on recording that song, but today I have a live performance!" (laughs).

- You have to write the lyrics, and think about the set list for the live performance.

Kobato: "I also have to MC po!" and so on.

Saiki: We kept asking "What day is it today? (laughs). We didn't have much time at all. We all listen to the songs we'd recorded, with earbuds in a moving van.

Kobato: If you just look at that, it's like a band that doesn't get along. (laughs) Even in the car, we were communicating on LINE [messaging app].

- Ahh, you didn't want to bother the others. "Just Bring It" was made under that much pressure, but still the whole piece emits the joy of being in a band and playing instruments.

Saiki: Yes, it was fun because we were exposed to music every day.

- One of the main features of this album is that two-thirds of the songs were written and composed by the band.

Kobato: In the beginning, the staff always made us know what to improve. I'm glad now because our goal was to be able to write all the songs by ourselves po.

- How did you go about writing the songs?

Kobato: Usually Kanami writes the foundation of the song and then hands it to the members.

- What do you have in mind when you make demos?

KANAMI: BAND-MAID puts importance on melody, so I come up with a lot of melodic ideas. I bring dozens of demos recorded with drums, bass and rough guitar riffs to the members then we all sort through them. From there each develops its own image and they become an ensemble.

- So you just prepare the framework?

KANAMI: Yes. From there, I give it to the vocalists and change the melody to match the lyrics.

- Is there anything that you can't compromise on?

KANAMI: Not really. I think a band's music should be created by everyone.

Saiki: But you definitely include a guitar solo.

KANAMI: Oh, I do like, "I'll put in a guitar solo, alright?" (laughs).

- What about the lyrics?

Kobato: Basically, Kobato writes all the lyrics. There are songs where Sai-chan gives me a rough idea but it becomes a lot of work in that case. I write it and show it to her. If she says it's not right, I have to rewrite it. Kobato also writes the rough lyrics for the songs we co-write. When I ask her, "What do you imagine this part to be like?" it often takes a lot of time for her to reply. I'd ask her, "Well, well, are you finished yet, sensei ......?", "Hmm, I don't know!" (laughs). When I ask "Send me something in text", she would send back a 20-letter sentence where I could only include about three. For this recording, I spent a lot of time looking for the right words and fitting them into the lyrics po.

- It's like the relationship between a writer and an editor.

Kobato That's right, really!

- What do you think of it, sensei?

Saiki: No, ...... it's not like that. Kobato is very good at expressing things in words. I can just tell her an image and ask, "Could you write the lyrics?

Kobato: This time, we were writing the songs for the single at the same time. When I was writing the lyrics for three songs at once, I looked like going to die in the van po.

- It's time to rest while you're on the move.

Kobato: That's right po! I want to sleep in the van but.

Saiki: The whole time, she kept saying, "Hmm, not that ....... Hmm, it's not that" (laughs).

Kobato: When we arrived at a service area, I sent the unfinished work to Sai-chan for a review.

- It's a time for a bathroom break, though.

Kobato: That's right (laughs). It was a time for me to send the lyrics.

- By the way, did you use the same studio for this recording as for the last one?

KANAMI: We recorded some at the same place and others at different places.

- I thought that the energy and power of the performance was completely different compared to the previous album.

KANAMI: The tone has changed quite a bit because the equipment has changed.

- The rhythm section plays a big role in this album? In particular, "Moratorium" is an explosive rock 'n' roll song, isn't it?

AKANE: This song for me was a game of concentration.

- AKANE-san, you step on the twin pedals a lot.

AKANE: If I lose my concentration even for a moment, my performance will collapse. I made an effort to keep it. It's a song that requires a lot of physical strength.

KANAMI: Basically, most of our songs are melody first, but for this one, we wrote the backing track first and added the melody later. I think that's why it has a lot of energy.

- If this song had been written a year ago, it probably wouldn't have been as cool as it is now.

AKANE: I don't think I could have made it this far technically. My legs have strengthened a lot in the past year.

Kobato: Your legs got thicker (laughs).

AKANE: Yes (laughs). They've gotten thicker. I've also used a lot of footwork in this album.

- You told in the interview on the previous album like "I installed a twin pedal, so I want to continue stepping on it".

AKANE: I didn't think I'd have to go this far. But (looking at Saiki) the members asked me to do it and I wanted to do it myself. I got greedy, "Let's do it!" and this is what happened.

- I guess from who you looked at right now, it seems that Saiki's opinions were taken into account a lot not only in the lyrics but also in the sound and composition of the song.

Kobato: It's like having a sound producer among the members. As with the lyrics, with the songs it's like "Why don't we put more kicks here?"

KANAMI: It's often like, "The A melody here should be quieter. I don't want anything thumping.", "Oh, yes. I'll rework it. Please listen to it later"

Saiki: When I listen to a song, a feeling like "this should be this" naturally springs up. I'm not very good at putting things into words, so I end up giving very abstract explanations. The members do a good job of understanding my feelings.

- It's quite big in music production that there is someone like Saiki-san.

KANAMI: Really it is. She has very good senses. Even though her explanations are abstract, it conveys what she means like, "Oh, I see! I can really feel it. I think we are able to create new types of songs because we have a person of ideas.

- MISA-san, how was the recording process?

MISA: I changed to a 5-string bass right before we started working on this album. So it was very hard to master how to play it right till the recording. They are very different from the feeling of my right hand to everything else. I had a hard time.

- Do you normally record with an instrument you are accustomed with?

MISA: Some of the new songs have a lower key than before, so I had to use a 5-string to make them work.

- It means that the range of songs has been broadend that much. KANAMI-san also plays the guitar limitlessly.

KANAMI: Thank you very much. It's fun to be able to do what I like but it's not only a fun part. The instrumentalists have practiced a lot over the past two years. I've also studied a lot about arranging and writing music.

- Have the music you listen to changed since you started writing songs by yourselves?

KANAMI: Yes, it has changed. To keep up with the latest music, I listen to the artists in the music magazines, and I borrow all the CDs in the top 10 at TSUTAYA [CD rental shop].

Kobato: I've been listening to more and more different kinds of music.

KANAMI: I think that's what everyone has been doing for the past year.

- The sound you're producing is hard rock, but what you take in goes beyond that.

Kobato: Yes, I want to listen to a wide range of music.

- Probably because the album was made during the tour, I think that the number of Sing-along parts has increased.

AKANE: I think this is especially true for "Moratorium.

AKANE: We were aware that there have been only few songs where we could get excited together with the masters and princesses. We also tried to give the song a "live" feel by having the male staff sing on the recording po.

- Personally, I like "Time" the best.

Kobato: Wow! I'm so happy because this is the song that Kobato mainly sings po.

- I think it's so catchy that it could become a new representative song.

Kobato: It's the kind of song that can only be included on an album. I think it's a good song in the sense that you won't get tired of listening to it po.

- The album title, "Just Bring It," shows your confidence.

Kobato: I thought about it after we finished recording. This time we produced a lot of the songs ourselves, including challenging songs and elements that don't sound like BAND-MAID. That gave us confidence in the album. I thought it would be good to have a title that express that confidence in a short phrase. When I was looking for it, I found this word that means "Come and get me". I thought it was perfect po.

- By the way, do you go back and listen to your past recordings?

Kobato: Yes, I do po.

- When you compare this album with your past works, don't you think they are completely different?

Kobato: I think they are different in many ways (laughs). In that sense, I think we are evolving.

- I think it's amazing that you've grown so much in just over a year since the last album.

Saiki: During the production of this album, I listened to past works and added elements that we hadn't done before. I think that's what made us inprove. There is no point in doing the same thing, so I was conscious of that.

- It seems that you have made progress in a blink of an eye that would take four or five years for other bands.

Kobato: We always talk about how we need to speed up our activities po.

KANAMI: Everyone is on the run, aren't we?

- Why are you in such a hurry?

Kobato: I don't know why ....... I think it's because We want to do more and more things that I can only do now po. We want to show more growth of ourselves while we are still getting attention overseas.

- Are you gradually becoming ambitious?

AKANE: That is true.

- It may be too early to tell, but I have a feeling that the next album will be even more powerful.

KANAMI: There's a lot of pressure on us to make better songs.

Kobato: A certain amount of the pressure is coming from ourselves.

KANAMI: If we give up, that's the end of it. We want to keep pursuing it.

- BAND-MAID has a lot of guts.

AKANE: Yes, we do. I think we have guts.

Kobato: That comes out in the songs (laughs).

Saiki: We torture ourselves a lot (laughs).
