# Band-Maid Web Limited Interview on VanityMix (2018-07-24)

**Date:** 2018-07-24  
**Publication:** VanityMix  
**Interviewer:** Hiroshi Tanaka  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/u0hurq/bandmaid_web_limited_interview_on_vanitymix/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/u0hurq/bandmaid_web_limited_interview_on_vanitymix/)  
**Original URL:** [http://old.vanitymix.jp/music/band-maid-2/](http://old.vanitymix.jp/music/band-maid-2/)  

---

The new work of the Maids who go ahead toward world domination through hard rock: “contradictory love” produced by returning to their roots

This year, Band-Maid steadily go ahead toward “world domination”, the goal they have had since their formation, by doing concerts in Switzerland, Singapore, Mexico, and Malaysia. In their album World Domination in February, they played hard rock numbers one after another without pulling any punches, but this time, they made a medium-tempo rock song they will play at the best moment in their concerts. They told us what made them inevitably write it by returning to their roots.

- I was surprised when I heard your new single Start over. What made you write it?

Kobato: When we decided to write this single, we talked together like “What kind of song should we write, po?” It was the first time the five of us had a meeting about songwriting, po.

Kanami: I always write demos and send them to my bandmates, but this time I couldn’t decide what kind of song to write, because of hitting a kind of slump, so all of us gathered to have a meeting. Then Sai-chan (Saiki) proposed like “How about reviewing our roots?”

- What do you mean by your roots?

Kanami: The first mini-album we released, Maid in Japan, had many songs a little closer to J-pop. We listened to all those songs once again, and got an inspiration about what we used to be in the beginning. Also, we wanted to have a song more and more people can sing, so we were conscious of making it karaoke-friendly.

Kobato: Band-Maid songs are often hard to sing on karaoke (laughs). We thought it might be nice to have a song everyone can sing more easily, po.

Kanami: We thought we had established our own hard rock style pretty well in our last album, and in order to achieve our goal of “world domination”, we wanted our song to be sung by a wider range of people.

- I was first surprised at the piano in the intro, then at its vibe, and at the lyrics. The song surprised me three times.

Kobato: Sai-chan proposed to have the piano in the intro, po.

- Kobato-san, you wrote the lyrics. Is it OK to think it’s a love song?

Kobato: Its lyrics have a theme of “contradictory love”, rather than just a love song. Whether the love is romantic love or friendship or whatever is totally up to those who listen to it. I, Kobato, think so, po.

- How did you get to that theme?

Kobato: When we talked about returning to our roots, I remembered we used to be more pop in the beginning. Recently we had many dark lyrics, and even love songs had darkness, so I wanted to have a more refreshing vibe, po. Also, the title “start over” means to repeat something or to do something all over again, which includes our feelings to return to our roots and to make progress again, po.

- So do the lyrics reflect your journey up to now?

Kobato: That’s right, po. However, just going straight is far from what we are now, so I wanted to show we’ve come here while overcoming obstacles, in order to have something more resonating with ourselves. That’s why I included “Bringing up this peace sign / I don’t give a fxxk” in the lyrics. Whether it’s fxxk in peace or peace in fxxk, we want to go ahead while taking the opposite things positively.

- I think the lyrics can be interpretted in many ways, but Saiki-san once said she didn’t want to sing about love, didn’t she?

Kobato: I got her permission at the time of Choose me (released in July 2017) and I also had her sing like “I love you” in the album song Anemone, so I thought she already acquired immunity and it’s OK to write that, po.

- However, I think it’s expressed even stronger this time.

Saiki: Well, I was embarrassed at the recording.

Kobato: When she sang it though for the first time, she was like “This is embarrassing!”, po (laughs).

Saiki: I kept saying “This is embarrassing”.

- Because you sing “It’s inevitable / To yearn for love”.

Kobato: Po!

Saiki: I sang it myself, but I don’t quite understand (laughs). I sang it by imagination.

- I wondered what “imperfect relationship” means.

Kobato: Hmm, there are a lot of darkness , po (laughs).

- Saiki-san, don’t you ask Kobato-san to explain the lyrics?

Saiki: I ask her, but she’s always like “Sai-chan, think about it yourself, po”. I ask her because I think about it and still can’t get it, so I’m like “What the heck is she?” (laughs) However, this time, we already decided at the meeting to have many meanings in the song, so I personally imagined and digested that.

- What kind of story did you imagine?

Saiki: I imagined my mother.

- Say, like you still love her even though you troubled her in your rebellious phase?

Saiki: Like, I remember having a period like that (laughs). Because of my personality, I sometimes quarreled with her.

Kobato: Her mother is so much like her, po.

Saiki: My mother is like me but twice worse than me. However, while I imagined my mother, you can read any story like about your lover, your friend, or your family in the lyrics, so I rather would like to know who you imagined when you listened to this song.

Kobato: I, Kobato, would like to know too, po. When we released this song, we were of course confident that we have made a good song, but we were also kind of worried because we did a different thing than usual. So I really want to know your thoughts and feelings when you listen to it, po.

Kanami: I think it’s a song we can write only now. We gained experience in hard rock, so we were absolutely different from our origin, and personally I feel attached to it because it was our first time gathering to talk about writing a song. So I hope you all will accept it (laughs).

Akane: We fully expressed the hard rock we want to show in the album [note: World Domination], and we wrote this song while wanting to further expand our range. We couldn’t have written it without releasing the album.

Kobato: This time, she worked hard on subtraction when she wrote it, po.

Kanami: I wanted highlight the vocal melody. Usually, I tend to add sounds, but this time I did my best to reduce them to make Sai-chan stand out.

- When you talked about the album, you told how to make it difficult, or something like that, didn’t you? You told how you made the album difficult or something like that, didn’t you?

Kobato: That was like adding, adding, and adding, po, right?

Kanami: So, this time, in order to make it simple, Sai-chan told me it might be good to remove the guitar solo.

Akane: She also said we wouldn’t need the fast bass drum this time.

- Did it become easier to play as it became simple?

Misa: I’ve always liked medium-tempo and slow-tempo songs, so it was easy to play.

Akane: As for the drums, I made the chorus simple without inserting a fill-in at all, but the A-melody [first half of the verse] is rather detailed. Band-Maid songs are usually fast-tempo, and I’m used to play them with the momentum, so honestly, this song was more difficult than kicking the bass drum fast with the double pedal. It was a new challenge, or task, or study.

- On the other hand, the B-side Screaming is an intense song 180 degrees different from Start over, isn’t it?

Kobato: That’s right, po. We have a contrast in the single.

- Is it a rebound from writing Start over?

Kanami: My bandmates also asked me a lot about that. That’s not my intention, and I just wrote it with an image of a Band-Maid-style hard rock tune, but they asked me “Are you all right?”

Kobato: I wondered if she packed a lot in it because of doing subtraction in Start over, po.

Kanami: Concerning the B-side, Sai-chan told me to write a usual hard rock tune, so I wrote it so. However, the tempo was originally a little slower. We were like “Isn’t it better to make it faster?” and recorded it with a faster tempo.

- The lyrics are about setting yourself free, aren’t they?

Kobato: I mainly thought about writing intense lyrics to match the music, po. I tried to emphasize the concept of a “strong woman” we Band-Maid have had for long.

- By the way, have you ever set yourself free and felt good?

Kobato: I, Kobato, was born in Kumamoto, but I came to Tokyo with no idea of what to do, only with my passion for music, po. It was good I set myself free then, po.

- You quite boldly set yourself free, didn’t you? (laughs)

Kobato: That’s right, po. I also got to know properly that I’m a pigeon, so I was able to spread my wings in that sense too, po.

- I’m sorry but I’m not sure what you mean.

Saiki: Please just forget it.

Kobato: Po!

- Saiki-san, do you see yourself in the lyrics?

Saiki: Hmm, they are about nothing but me.

- The lines “Yes, this is me / Not letting myself be controlled” are very much like you, aren’t they? (laughs)

Saiki: That’s right. Like “No time to sigh on it right now”.

Kobato: Sai-chan is even cooler when she sings brusque lyrics, po. I wrote the lyrics with both strong parts like “Soon I’m going to explode” at the very beginning and a little cute parts, so that her coolness shines even more, po.

Saiki: Those lyrics were so easy to sing. However, before the guitar solo, I tried a new voice I learned in voice training lessons, imagining G-Dragon-san of Big Bang. [Note: from “There is no place for me” at 2:14.]

Kobato: It feels a little like rap, po.

Saiki: I sang that part while thinking “I’m G-Dragon, I’m G-Dragon…” I was Saiki in the other parts.

- You have told that you raised its tempo, so was it hard to play it?

Akane: It’s just hard. Especially my feet.

Misa: My left hand can barely keep up with the pace in some parts.

Saiki: I thought they would change phrases when we raised the tempo, but they didn’t change anything, so I wondered if it was a contest of endurance (laughs).

Akane: I got used to the first one, so it was rather hard to change it and I just played it as it is. Also, Sai-chan always tells me not to skip anything (laughs).

Kobato: When she skips something, Sai-chan spots it and says “Hey, did you change that?”, po.

Akane: I kick the bass drum only with my right foot in the intro and the A-melody [first half of the verse], but actually it would be easier to use the double pedal for this tempo. So I couldn’t decide until the day of recording, but I finally chose to use only my right foot without compromising, emphasizing the momentum, because I thought that would give the song a speedy feel.

Misa: How about the guitar solo?

Kanami: You all won’t laugh again, OK?

Kobato: I’ll probably laugh, po.

Saiki: I’ve laughed a lot, but it’s still funny.

- Do you have a funny story like that? (laughs)

Kanami: No, not quite. When I was asked about the guitar solo in an interview, I said “I imagined an obstacle race”, and all the others laughed so much.

Kobato: You can’t quite get it, don’t you think, po?

Kanami: You’re like “Whoa, it’s started”, and you crawl under the net and jump over a vaulting horse and finish.

Kobato: That’s such a short obstacle race, po (laughs).

Kanami: There’s only the net and the vaulting horse in my image. I wrote it with the image of running like that. [Note: see my comment below.]

- But if it’s a guitar solo like an obstacle race, that rather makes you want to listen to it, isn’t it? (laughs) Did you have any images like that in your songs so far, by the way?

Kanami: Maybe. Like fighting and punching.

Kobato: Wasn’t there something you wrote with an image of Street Fighter?

Kanami: That’s DOMINATION (included in World Domination).

Saiki: Oh, was that so?!

Kanami: The place where the one who breathes fire is.

- That’s Dhalsim (laughs).

Kanami: Oh, yeah! I wrote the melody with an image of Dhalsim.

Kobato: She often suddenly reveals in interviews, so the rest of us are like “Oh, was that so?!”, po.

- I hope you will explain all the guitar solos when you release a greatest hits album someday.

Kanami: Can I make myself understood? Is it interesting? Is it all right?

Kobato: That’s all right, po. That’s far more interesting than you think, po.

- I’m looking forward to it (laughs). I suppose you Band-Maid will appear in many festivals this summer with those two songs. What do you want those who see you for the first time pay attention to?

Kobato: After all, we’d like them to feel the contrast we are conscious of. Like the contrast of our outfits and songs, the contrast of our playing, and contrasts in our songs. We want them to enjoy the Band-Maid world, po. I think there’s hardly a band like Band-Maid, so we will work hard to be accepted, po.

- In addition, you will go on a tour from September to the beginning of next year. You went on the album tour at Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka in spring too, didn’t you?

Saiki: That was the World Domination: Senkoku [“Declaration”] tour, and we will go on the Shinryaku [“Invasion”] tour in fall.

Kobato: This time, we go not only to Tokyo, Nagoya, or Osaka but to a lot of places, so we’d like to keep invading more and more places, po.

- Will the content different from spring?

Kobato: Yes, po. We’d like to do servings with our experiences in Senkoku, po.

Saiki: We completed the Senkoku [“Declaration”] tour in a rather one-sided way, but now it’s Shinryaku [“Invasion”], so we hope we can make a little more addictive setlists.

Kobato: We would like to develop an operation plan to invade and grab more masters and princesses’ hearts, po.
