# Band-Maid VanityMix Web Limited Interview (2021-11-03)

**Date:** 2021-11-03  
**Publication:** VanityMix  
**Interviewer:** Ryosuke Arakane  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/s9fksu/translation_bandmaid_vanitymix_web_limited/Ryosuke%20Arakane](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/s9fksu/translation_bandmaid_vanitymix_web_limited/Ryosuke%20Arakane)  

---

The maid-dressed hard rock band Band-Maid released the new single Sense containing three songs. They attract attention as they made their Hollywood debut by appearing as themselves in the Netflix film Kate in September this year. Due to the COVID pandemic, they have been unable to do servings (Band-Maid concerts) as they want, but they have just given us the super-exciting songs without succumbing to it. They bet all on the aggressive tunes that unleash suppressed emotions to all the vectors, including the title song used as the opening theme of the TV anime Platinum End. We interviewed Saiki (vocals) and Miku Kobato (guitar & vocals) about the three songs that will definitely stand out at servings.

- The end of the year is just around the corner. What kind of year was 2021 for you?

Kobato: We kept writing songs all through, po.

Saiki: We were writing while enduring hardships, right?

Kobato: We had plans for servings, but we’ve reached the conclusion that we can’t do servings now, po.

Saiki: We haven’t done an in-person serving for around a year and eight months, so this year we kept doing our activities while enduring hardships.

- You are almost about to forget the feel of in-person servings, aren’t you?

Kobato: We’re saying “When we do an in-person serving, we’ll probably cry on stage, right?” We’ll be like “Oh, everybody is there!” So we’re thinking of having a little bit of pause after getting on stage (laughs).

- Ah, are you going to make time to wipe your tears?

Kobato: Yes, po. We’ll have time to dry our eyes.

Saiki: It will be completely different than our last concert, and they probably won’t be able to shout yet. How should we do in that situation?… My heart keeps pounding (laughs).

- Now, we would like to talk about the new songs. You have made a totally aggressive single. It has a very strong metal vibe as a whole.

Kobato: Actually, we might not have been so conscious of expressing intensity, po.

Saiki: We put out intensity well in the sense that they will be standard songs to get audience excited at servings. However, we weren’t particularly conscious of a stronger hard rock or metal vibe. It’s true they are aggressive songs, though.

Kobato: If we try to be aggressive, we’ll reach BLACK HOLE in our previous work (Unseen World). Compared to that, we weren’t so conscious of intensity, po.

- Uh-huh, they are not as intense as your most intense song (laughs).

Kobato: That’s right, po. We tend to overdo it when we try to be aggressive.

- The title song Sense has become the opening theme of the TV anime Platinum End. Did you write it after you received the offer?

Kobato: Yes, po. We wrote it specifically for that, po.

Saiki: Kobato had already read the original manga.

- You are great as usual! So, you had already checked it out.

Kobato: I was really surprised we received the offer exactly when I finished reading the (then) latest volume and was waiting for the next volume, po. So I was told “Kobato, are you spiritually connected with it?” (laughs) I was happy because I was just a mere fan, po. So I put more spirit into writing the lyrics, po. I tried to stay close to the original manga by using words and phrases in it. Actually there was no detailed request from the production committee, po.

- Oh, was that so?

Kobato: We wrote the music and the lyrics in the Band-Maid style as we wanted. They asked me to include the words “angel” and “sense”, but I was already thinking of including them, po.

- It’s like deeply understanding each other without a word.

Kobato: As for the music, we changed the orchestral intro, but almost nothing else, po.

- The story of Platinum End itself starts with quite a dark emotion, doesn’t it?

Kobato: It doesn’t feel like a pleasant story, but it’s a story about life and hope, so I wrote the lyrics to get that across, po. I emphasized light in the darkness. That’s why I put the words “I want to be happy” [note: at 1:07] and “I just want to live” [note: at 1:00] in the chorus, po.

- It’s a song full of vitality including its lyrics. Saiki-san, was there anything you had in mind about vocals?

Saiki: I read the manga and got impression that it says “I want to be free” and “I want to fly”, so when I sang it, I kept in mind to sing with a relaxed feel, without singing too strong. The vocal melody itself has a relaxed feel, so it was comfortable to sing. This is just my impression, but I think its instrumentals express the protagonist’s internal struggle and darkness while its vocals seek happiness. So I was conscious of singing it with a positive feel.

- The tune certainly feels like a contrast of light and darkness.

Kobato: I think it will be one of the highlight songs at servings, po. The guitar riff at the intro is so cool that it will get audience excited.

- Is the majestic orchestra at the intro the only part you have changed?

Saiki: Yes. The intro was originally a band sound, but we changed it to orchestra.

Kobato: They asked us to make it majestic, but Kanami had never done anything like that, so she wrote it by getting advice from a lot of people, po.

- It’s like the intro of a film, isn’t it? You’ll be attracted to it from the beginning.

Kobato: Yes, po. It matches perfectly with the opening of the anime, and according to Saiki, it also feels like chūnibyō [note: juvenile imagination].

Saiki: It’s a complete chūnibyō (laughs). However, it’s nice exactly because it feels a little cheesy.

Kobato: In the beginning, I wasn’t sure if our songs would match well with orchestra, po, because I hadn’t imagined that before.

- Metal and orchestra go well together.

Kobato: I’ve heard other metal songs with orchestra, but I hadn’t imagined our songs with it, so it felt fresh, po.

Saiki: We sometimes used stylish horns but we didn’t have anything like this.

- I believe fans overseas, such as in Europe, will absolutely love this song.

Kobato: That’s right, po. Just like Different, people overseas will pay attention to it because of the anime. I hope Sense will create more masters and princesses (Band-Maid fans) overseas, po.

- What do you want to convey in the lines “It’s no one’s fault / Even a heart that’s broken in despair / Is saved by the connecting RING / Molded and reformed / Changed and charged again” [note: at 2:27]?

Kobato: That’s the darkest part, po. The protagonist who has failed to kill himself receives a ring from an angel, and his environment starts to change from there, but I think it’s not limited to the anime. I also read something written by those who wanted to die but couldn’t, and I imagined how they felt.

- What did you read specifically?

Kobato: I read diaries and blogs about their experiences, and when I kept doing the research, I usually found a banner ad at the top like “Are you worried about something?”, po (laughs).

Saiki: Ha ha ha.

Kobato: I’ve read that those people often withdraw into their shell and some annoying vision comes to their mind, po. I wrote so because I wanted to express such feelings you can’t control yourself.

- I understand. The next song is Hibana. Did you write it for the battle theme song of the All-Japan University e-Sports Competition?

Kobato: Yes, po. We also wrote this song specifically for the offer, po.

Saiki: It’s a game called Rainbow Six Siege, and you actually play a special forces member of the police and fight three-on-three.

Kobato: We shoot extremely a lot in the lyrics like “Gun shot!!”, right?

Saiki: The song has a speedy feel, and Kanami’s guitar is authentic and simple. I think that’s rather rare.

Kobato: I think it’s a good song with momentum, po.

- This song will also get audience extremely excited at concerts.

Kobato: That’s right, po. It’s rather close to FREEDOM or Play.

- It also has a lot of sing-along parts, doesn’t it?

Kobato: I hope the day when we can sing along will come soon, po.

Saiki: It contains our wish for that. Hibana is a song where the backing vocals stand out. We wanted to express the roughness of the battlefield by getting excited together. It has more backing vocals than usual.

Kobato: Also, I sing more adlibs, and I growl at the end of the chorus. I’ll work hard on it also at servings (laughs).

- I got impression that the vocals of this song are pretty hard.

Saiki: Especially the English pronunciation… It gets harder in the repeated part, because there’s no timing to close my mouth. I have to put accents, so I practiced a lot, though. I divide the melody in my mouth for the pronunciation. I wasn’t used to it because it’s not in Japanese, so I worked really hard on it (laughs).

Kobato: It really feels like doing sports, doesn’t it? There’s no timing for breath, so it feels like keeping running, po.

Saiki: I was out of breath at the recording, and it was rather nice it got a live performance feel. So, as I go to the second half of the song, I get more energetic, or more with momentum.

- That’s also a highlight. The last song is Corallium. Saiki-san, you wrote lyrics to it for the first time, didn’t you? The lyrics are quite straightforward, and that made me think “Is this perhaps about Saiki-san?”…

Kobato: Everyone says so, po… (laughs)

Saiki: It’s not that I’m like this (laughs). However, having many spoken words in the lyrics is probably my taste. The mentally unstable part everyone has… you can’t realize it until you verbalize it, and you don’t have many occasions to verbalize it, don’t you think? I just verbalize it for everyone. Also, I realized recently I’m afraid of the sea and I don’t like diving. Actually I’m really scared of it. That was when I was writing the lyrics… “Corallium” means precious coral, and I wanted to use the expression “oboreru” [“drown”] for both love and the sea.

- I see.

Saiki: However, “oboreru” [“drown”] in this sense is probably understood only by Japanese people. You say “koi ni oboreru” [note: “drown in love”, meaning “carried away because you love too much”], don’t you? I intentionally cherished the Japanese expression.

Kobato: It has the expression “oboreru” a lot, po, right?

Saiki: I wanted to use it for both love and the sea.

- How did you know you are afraid of the sea?

Saiki: I saw news about the beach opening day for the first time in a while, and when I saw a video of swirling waves, I was like “I’m scared!” I also remembered I had felt “I’m scared!” when I tried scuba diving in the past. I was like “I want to go up as soon as possible” then. When I saw the news, I might have had a flashback, like “The sea is so scary…” I’m the most scared of dying by drowning. I wanted to release such feelings.

- I might repeat myself, but why did you want to write about the mentally unstable part?

Saiki: I’m not mentally unstable myself, but I do have such an emotion. I have it, but I’m not overwhelmed by it, and it’s just a special guest who occasionally comes out (laughs). I don’t want you to think I’m like this, but I do have a little of it. I wrote the lyrics by developing that.

Kobato: The wording in the lyrics really feels like Saiki, po.

Saiki: The words I’ve chosen really make me think “This is me”. My choice of words like “It’s addictive. What’s going on?” and “I’m not bewildered by drowning” shows that (laughs).

- I like the straightforward line “Painful and lovely” too. I think young people will love that.

Saiki: Thank you so much. Personally, I like that part. That’s so like me, like “Which is my true feeling?”

Kobato: It might be a feeling unique to girls, po.

Saiki: Teens will probably love it. They might hide such an emotion, but I want to say they don’t have to. If they feel sympathy for my lyrics, I want them to say “I feel sympathy” clearly (laughs).

- The instruments are aggressive in this song too.

Saiki: Yes. I asked Kanami to write a song like Alone and Choose me. If we write them now, we get a song like this.

Kobato: This song has good points of our past and shows our progress, po.

- We would like to talk about your future schedule. Are you going to keep writing songs?

Kobato: Yes, po. We keep writing songs, basically without a rest, po.

Saiki: We haven’t decided a future release yet, so we’ll probably have a discussion about how to release.

- As for in-person servings, you will plan them depending on the situation, won’t you?

Kobato: The situation might change again when it gets cold.

Saiki: We’ve decided to do and then canceled many times. We’d like to do an online okyu-ji before the end of the year, though.
