# Interview with Miku Kobato and Saiki on Massive Vol. 39: Unremitting efforts of Band-Maid (2021-11-17)

**Date:** 2021-11-17  
**Publication:** Massive  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/vqe2m0/translation_interview_with_miku_kobato_and_saiki/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/vqe2m0/translation_interview_with_miku_kobato_and_saiki/)  

---

Unremitting efforts of Band-Maid

Band-Maid have expanded another possibility with their latest single Sense, whose title song is the opening theme of the TV anime Platinum End. They keep trying toward world domination, never getting tired, always persevering. Miku Kobato and Saiki candidly talk about their current situation.

I believe Band-Maid’s Unseen World should be regarded as one of the best among the many rock albums released in 2021. That’s exactly why it’s a pity, or rather frustrating, that they haven’t been able to go on an album release tour yet due to the pandemic. However, obviously, the band’s evolution hasn’t slowed down under such circumstances. Their latest single Sense, released on October 27, proves it. Their progress to a next realm after the “unseen world” is felt in the title song, which is the opening theme of the TV anime Platinum End, as well as in the two B-side songs, Hibana, which is used as the All-Japan University e-Sports Competition battle theme, and Corallium, which Saiki wrote whole lyrics to for the first time. I’m genuinely glad that this tour de force was released in 2021.

This time, we interviewed Miku Kobato and Saiki not only about this epoch-making single but also about their recent diverse activities that go beyond music production… which might sound like we had a formal conversation, but actually, if you had seen us talking, you would have wondered why an older guy joined in the girls talk. In fact, there was a lot of laughter. There were, however, various findings too.


- I have a couple of things to report before having an interview about your latest single. Firstly, I listened to your radio show (Band-Maid Nippon aired on October 4 and 11)!

Kobato: Wow. Thank you so much, po!

Saiki: Thank you so much.

- It was fun. First of all, there was the difference in energy levels between the two of you as soon as the program started.

Saiki: Ha ha ha!

Kobato: I think we were able to do it more normally than I had imagined, po, without feeling pressured in particular. The two of us were allowed to talk pretty freely, po. We had a script of course, but we had a certain amount of freedom, so we had fun, po.

- If you hadn’t had freedom, Saiki-san, you wouldn’t have talked about the Hanshin Tigers that much.

Kobato: Not my horse racing talk, either (laughs).

Saiki: Usually, we can’t talk that much, can we?

Kobato: Definitely not, po.

- The 30 minutes flew by when I listened to it. Was it the same for you in the talking side?

Kobato: Yes, po. Rather, it was hard to keep it to 30 minutes, po.

- You did two special episodes first, but you will do it every week, won’t you? (The regular program started on October 27, when the single was released.) Will this program be like a new base for you Band-Maid?

Saiki: I guess it will. It’s also a chance to let Japanese radio listeners know about us Band-Maid more widely.

Kobato: We’ve been having regular opportunities to make our voice reach our masters and princesses (fans) in the band fan club kind of thing, but we didn’t have one for general public. So, to be able to do it on Nippon Broadcasting System is very…

Saiki: Appreciated!

Kobato: Yeah. I think it’s a great thing.

- Is it another important step toward world domination?

Kobato: Yes, po. We try to conquer Japan first, through the radio wave.

Saiki: So you mean to conquer the airtime? (laughs) By making the program time longer and longer…

Kobato: It would be nice if we could make it longer and longer to conquer the program listing, po (laughs). It would be nice if we could make it to All Night Nippon as a result, po!

Saiki: That’ll be insane! It’s our dream, right?

- Oh. Did you often listen to the radio before?

Kobato: I used to listen to it often, po. Especially when I was preparing for the university.

Saiki: I started listening to it only recently. Actually I started listening to it after forming Band-Maid. But what do you mean you used to listen to the radio when you were preparing for the university? You shouldn’t do something else while studying.

Kobato: Oh, sorry, po (laughs). I guess I didn’t study properly in the first place, po (laughs).

Saiki: But I do think driving and studying are the top 2 situations where people listen to the radio the most often.

Kobato: Yeah. I also think they listen to it the most often while driving, po.

Saiki: Speaking of that, when I was in Yamanashi, I remember listening to the radio often in the car. I could only listen to FM Fuji, though, because it’s Yamanashi (laughs).

- Well, in short, it’s a part of our daily life. While we have various communication tools including social media now, it would be interesting if you could do something unique to radio.

Kobato: That’s right, po. You can’t communicate with sound on social media. It’s only texts.

Saiki: You know, it looks close but actually distant if you use only texts. You feel a little distant about, like, whether we are excited or not, or what kind of facial expression we are making. Also, it doesn’t feel quite right or deep enough, as a place where we can interact.

Kobato: Right. We rarely reply directly to messages we receive, but on the radio, we can communicate with a unique sense of time, like reading letters from listeners, so it’s fun, po.

- Like, it doesn’t have the speedy feel of chat, but it has the fun of waiting for a reply a week later.

Saiki: Yeah, exactly.

Kobato: I think it’s nice to have something to enjoy every week or something to look forward to like that, po. It also has a feeling of lottery like “Will they read my letter?” so it feels unique, po.

- You introduced yourselves in the first episode, and you talked about your favorite artists and so on in the second episode. I felt the atmosphere of your conversation well, and once it’s imprinted in my mind, I’ll probably hear your voices even when I read written interviews.

Kobato: I think so, po. I think it makes our natural vibe come across more easily, po.

Saiki: Yeah. I hope it will come across. I’m sorry that’s just the real us (laughs).

Kobato: Yes, that’s what we are, po.

Saiki: That’s the real us, so nothing else will come out even if you wait for something (laughs).

- It will be more fun if your bandmates appear on the show in the future, won’t it?

Kobato: I’m worried we might get off track too much, po (laughs).

Saiki: We’re messed up when all the five of us gather. In that case, only Kobato will function normally (laughs).

Kobato: I have to take care of it then, po. But we’ll be all right, po.

Saiki: I think Kobato-sensei will manage it.

Kobato: Now it’s a matter of whether we can keep our conversation within the program time, po. So, we have to go ahead with the plan of making the program time longer and longer, po (laughs).

Saiki: We’re not ready to invite our bandmates yet, right? (laughs) We can barely play one song. I want to play a lot of songs, but we end up talking a lot before doing so (laughs).

- Please conquer Japan before the world, and please conquer Nippon Broadcasting System before Japan (laughs). So, following the radio show, my second report is that I watched the film. Of course I mean Kate, where you Band-Maid appear.

Kobato: Thank you so much, po.

- You are Hollywood actresses, in a sense.

Saiki: We can call ourselves so, right? (laughs) Well, we’re just doing a serving (concert) in the film, though.

- It’s also nice you can easily watch it on Netflix. How do you feel about this appearance?

Kobato: It felt really strange, po. We didn’t know how it was used in what kind of scene until we actually saw it ourselves after the release, po. We realized it only when we saw it, so we were surprised ourselves, po.

Saiki: As for me, I didn’t know Blooming was used in the film (laughs), so when I was watching it, I was like “What? Is this Blooming?” (laughs)

Kobato: We had only heard that two songs of ours would be used, and we didn’t know which song, so I was surprised like “Oh, they’ve chosen Blooming!”, po.

Saiki: That was so surprising.

- As for filming, you were filmed when you were playing just normally, weren’t you?

Kobato: Yes, po. In the performance scene of Choose me, we were really playing it right there, but we had no idea how it would turn out in the film. We saw them filming us of course, but the place itself was pretty dark and we couldn’t see them clearly, so we didn’t know what they were filming, po.

Saiki: Right. So, I was like “How long do we have to play in this scene?” (laughs)

Kobato: I was like “Is it all right if we just play the whole song?” so when I saw the completed one I was like “Wow!”, po.

Saiki: Also, I didn’t expect we would be filmed that much. The performance scene was that clear. I thought it would be more of a wide shot.

Kobato: Me too! I thought we would appear like “Oh, we’re seen in the distance”, po.

Saiki: I was already surprised when I saw the teaser that was released earlier, but when I saw the full-length film, I was like “I’m embarrassed!” (laughs)

Kobato: Yeah, I was surprised we were filmed pretty clearly, po.

- I’ve heard the director Cedric Nicolas-Troyan directly asked you to be in the film, and in fact you fit well with the girl. You fit well as her choice of concert.

Kobato: I think so, po.

Saiki: I was glad we were chosen for that.

- And the actress’s name is Miku Martineau-san.

Kobato: That’s right, po. I was surprised.

Saiki: Yeah. We met Miku-chan at the filming.

Kobato: She was like “I’m Miku too!” and we took a picture together, po.

- It’s an interesting coincidence. And I came up with this idea. It must be interesting if the Band-Maid story is made into a film.

Saiki: Ha ha ha! That’ll be embarrassing (laughs).

Kobato: That’ll be a big deal, po. There are a lot of things we can’t show, so we have to do it a little cleanly in order to make it, po.

Saiki: No, that wouldn’t be a documentary.

Kobato: Right, we can’t make a documentary, po. It’s not something we can show to other people, po (laughs).

Saiki: Because we’re probably pretty different from our image.

Kobato: I think we would be better suited to an American comedy, po, when it comes to our vibe.

- If so, how about rather making it into an animation?

Kobato: Yes, po, that would be better.

Saiki: Yeah, we want to be animated (laughs).

Kobato: You know, there are works based on American comics, po. I think we might fit perfectly if we appear in those kinds of works, po.

Saiki: Personally, I’d love it if we’re made into an Adult Swim animation on Cartoon Network.

- That would be effective also as a part of your world domination strategy.

Kobato: That’ll be nice, po.

Saiki: Anyway I want us to be in the Adult Swim block! (laughs)

Kobato: It looks like she’s already decided the block, po (laughs). We have to negociate with them directly. We’ve released anime-style drawings and illustrated posters so far, so it would be nice if we could make our animation come true as an extention of that, po.

Saiki: That’s my dream, definitely. Animation is our dream, right?

Kobato: It’s our dream, po!

- Do you want to be animated rather than to be Hollywood actresses?

Kobato: Of course, animation is better…

Saiki: I want us to be animated! I want us Band-Maid to be made into an animation!

Kobato: In that case, I’ll do voice acting too, po. I don’t know if the rest of us will do it.

Saiki: I can’t, because I can’t talk smoothly (laughs).

- I see… Now is not the time to digress like this (laughs), but your dreams are expanding. The core of your activities is of course music, but you also want to do various things to convey your band’s fun and uniqueness, through radio, films, animation, and so on, don’t you?

Kobato: Yes, that’s right, po. We’d like to keep doing various things freely like that, po.

- For example, the single Sense has an illustrated cover, you know. Saiki-san, you produced the artwork also this time, even though you probably didn’t draw it yourself.

Saiki: That’s right. I can’t draw it myself (laughs).

- Anyway, you are always deeply involved in how to present Band-Maid, such as artworks and merch designs. I’m sure you have an image in your mind of how to depict your band, and I’ve wanted to ask you how you want to present your band right now.

Saiki: As for me, I want people to know the Band-Maid world, or I want to emphasize it, so I always ask something you can see it in at a glance. In the case of Sense this time, I think the COVID pandemic draws out pretty negative feelings such as frustration from you all. In this cover art, I expressed them as wastes, which means I compare what you want to throw away or you have already thrown away to wastes and junks. However, I hope you can see our duality through us and the angel’s shadow. I always cherish the duality kind of thing in covers and designs. After all, I think this contrast is unique to us Band-Maid, and I’ve never seen a band with this big contrast so far, other than ourselves (laughs).

Kobato: You’re right, po (laughs).

- All the three songs on this single are so powerful that each of them can be an A-side. Since the songs are colorful, you must have had an option to make an colorful artwork. But you intentionally avoid using colors there, which feels so Band-Maid to me.

Kobato: That’s right, po. Black-and-white is something like a Band-Maid theme, and our outfits are also like that.

Saiki: That’s one reason, and I also think it’s not us who decide colors. Like, each of you must have a color you want to see in this cover art.

Kobato: In your imagination.

Saiki: Yes. If there is a color you want to see in it, please see it with that color (laughs).

- You mean you want it to be something that stimulates your imagination, like which color you want to paint it with, or what drawing you want to add to it, don’t you?

Saiki: Yes. After all, Band-Maid is not made only by ourselves. I believe we’re a band that has grown at servings with our masters and princesses, so I want you all to put your ideas into our recordings and visual works. I’m not forcing you to do so, but I want you to take part in.

Kobato: That’s right, po. We’ve been trying things like that, like we included stickers as an album bonus and you can complete the artwork using them in your own way, and this cover art has that element, po.

- If so, the key points when you order designs are your contrast, your duality, and the blank space where everyone can add their imagination.

Kobato: Yes. So that we can create it with you all, po.

Saiki: We cherish that. We think about our band almost all the time, you know (laughs). So, what we are interested in at the time is often reflected in the band. It’s all about timing. The same goes for this cover art. We came to realize that what we want to do, what we want to express, or what we want to convey, are not only about music, and we put that out in a straightforward way.

- In the cover illustration of Sense, various fragments of the lyrics are thrown away…

Saiki: Yes. We asked to include the lyrics of the chorus. Throwing away is paired with picking up what is thrown away (laughs).

Kobato: Yeah. That means you pick them up and make the lyrics out of them, po.

- Maybe you can think this is a pile of stuff the garbage truck didn’t take away (laughs).

Saiki: Yes. It might be something you have to keep.

- And if you take it all away, the shadow of “BAND-MAID” would remain like a Banksy painting.

Saiki: Ha ha ha!

Kobato: We’ll leave that to your imagination, po.

Saiki: Moreover, in the pile of garbage, we included elements of each of us.

Kobato: It includes things we each love and things that symbolize us each, po.

Saiki: There’s a poster of a pigeon for Kobato, and there’s a coffee kit for Kanami because she loves coffee. There are whisky bottles lying near it (laughs).

- That symbolizes Misa-san, isn’t it? What about ramen?

Kobato: It’s for Akane, po, because she loves ramen.

Saiki: There are sneakers too. Also my skateboard.

Kobato: Things we each love and things that symbolize us each are subtly included like that, po.

- Maybe not so subtly (laughs). Anyway, this single has a lot of topics. The opening theme of a popular TV anime, the theme song of an e-sports competition, and a song whose lyricist deserves our attention.

Saiki: Yes, that’s me (laughs).

- Yes (laughs). While each of them is accompanied with its own topic, all of them are songs you want to release now and to reflect the current world in.

Kobato: We weren’t conscious of reflecting the current world in the songs, but we’d like to incorporate it in the cover art, po. As for the songs, it feels like they ended up forming the single, po. We planned to release Sense in a single from the beginning, but we didn’t start writing the other two for the single, so the three songs came together as a result, po.

- So did you write Sense specifically for Platinum End?

Kobato: Yes. That’s right, po.

- The lyrics also correspond to the story quite a lot.

Kobato: That’s right, po. They stay close to the anime, po. Personally, I originally enjoyed reading the manga Platinum End, and I had read all the volumes, po. We received the offer around when I just finished reading it, so I was surprised at the timing, and I thought it was a great coincidence. I was like “I’d love to write lyrics so much, po” and wrote them, po.

Saiki: I originally didn’t know well about Platinum End, and I read it carefully after we received the offer. So, as I learned more about the story, the music and the lyrics came out.

- It’s a pretty complicated, or unusual, story, isn’t it?

Saiki: Yes. I had to read it several times to finally understand it (laughs). I was sometimes like “Who was this guy?” Or like “Oh? Who is this angel?”

- Like “Who was the guy this angel supports?”

Saiki: Yeah, exactly. It’s a story you have to remember a lot of things for (laughs).

Kobato: The setting is rather complicated, po.

Saiki: I’m basically not good at complicated settings, probably (laughs).

Kobato: The story is very well-crafted. The details are elaborate, po.

Saiki: It’s like a film, right?

Kobato: Yeah. That sounds right, po.

- Moreover, an anime can have a setting that would be impossible in a film.

Kobato: Yes, po.

Saiki: Crazy things happen in anime.

- Crazy things can happen, which is why it would be interesting to make Band-Maid into an anime.

Kobato: Ha ha ha! I don’t think a complicated story like that would suit us Band-Maid. It should be simpler, right?

Saiki: Yeah. We’re rather like a comedy.

Kobato: Yeah, a comedy will be fine for us, po.

- It would be interesting if only one of the five of you could become the true god like in Platinum End (laughs). You would fight each other for the title.

Saiki: All right, let’s pretend the five of us are gods and fight!

Kobato: I’ll definitely lose, po.

Saiki: I’ll win (laughs).

Kobato: Yeah, Saiki will definitely win. It would be obvious before even fighting, so that setting is useless, po (laughs). The show would end with one episode, and it wouldn’t keep going, po (laughs).

- Concerning Sense, when I heard the 90-second TV size version, I found it started with a catchy riff and kept building up, and ended while pumping me up. First time I heard the full-size version, I realized how skillfully the song’s good points were condensed into that size.

Kobato: I think you can feel the usual Band-Maid style with many developments in the full song, po. The characteristics of our music really matched with the image of the anime, po.

Saiki: That’s so true. They matched really well.

Kobato: We were allowed to write almost freely in terms of composition. We had to communicate with the production committee only a couple of times.

Saiki: And almost only about the intro. It was only about the orchestral part, according to Kanami.

Kobato: Yeah. Only the beginning was a little changed. It’s really our style…

Saiki: Yeah, it’s a really Kanami-style song. This is her favorite composition style. I think it’s Band-Maid’s winning formula of developments.

Kobato: For sure, po.

- Concerning tie-ins in general, it seems there are many cases where they order or request in detail about the song feel, but it wasn’t the case this time, was it?

Kobato: There was a request on lyrics to include two or three words they wanted, and in fact that’s the only one I got, po.

- The lyrics have a lot of words linked to the story. Personally, I was impressed most of all by the word “umazu tayumazu” [note: “never getting tired, always persevering” at 0:57].

Kobato: Po! (laughs) You might not use the word very often nowadays (laughs).

Saiki: Honestly speaking, I learned it only this time (laughs). I was like “What’s this?” (laughs). I kind of know “tayumazu” [“always persevering”], but, like, what the heck is “umazu” [“never getting tired”] (laughs).

- Kobato-san, do you use those words in everyday life?

Saiki: Do you use them normally?

Kobato: No, I don’t, po. Because those words have no Kobato vibe. If I used them in everyday life, wouldn’t that sound a little snobbish, po? (laughs)

- Rather, there are not so many situations where you can use them, other than people in a leading position saying “Do your best, while never getting tired, always persevering”.

Kobato: You are right, po. Like, novelists.

Saiki: Is it a word only smart people use? Is it still used today?

Kobato: It’s not an unusual word, po. But I don’t think it comes out in conversation often, po.

Saiki: I see what you mean. So you don’t say “I, Kobato, did it, never getting tired, always persevering”, right?

Kobato: No, never. If I were to say that, I would be asked “What happened to you?”, po (laughs).

- Do you mean you looked for an appropriate word when you wanted to say “While keeping motivated”?

Kobato: Yes, po, exactly. A character in the manga used a similar word, and I eventually found it.

- I also find the word “yūōmaishin go!” [note: “Courage in hand, forward, let’s go!” at 3:18] interesting.

Kobato: We decided to use a yojijukugo at the end of the lyrics, so I looked for a word that sounds nice also to people overseas, po.

Saiki: I remember you came up with six candidates or so.

Kobato: Actually, there were so many words that would suit the anime or the story, other than them, po. I narrowed them down to five or six, and asked Saiki like “Which one do you like?”, po.

- This word sounds like English, even when its meaning wouldn’t come across. It might sound like “You, owe, might, think, go”, even though it doesn’t make sense.

Saiki: Ha ha ha! Certainly. Actually, I sang it like that at the recording.

Kobato: Yeah, a little like English.

Saiki: It’s Japanese, though (laughs). After all, its sound was more important than its meaning.

Kobato: A word that has a meaning in Japanese and a sound that would be cool even for people overseas. I wanted such a word, po.

- I thought your choice of words was very well-thought-out. Next, the second song on this single, Hibana, is the battle theme song of the All-Japan University e-Sports Competition.

Kobato: Yes, po. It’s the theme song of the competition of a game called Rainbow Six Siege, po.

Saiki: You keep shooting in this game.

Kobato: You have to shoot a lot, po, to defeat the enemy.

Saiki: You fight in 3-on-3 with allies and enemies.

- Doesn’t it lead somewhat to Kate?

Kobato: Kate is basically about individual fights, po, but this is more about fights where teamwork is important, po. This is also a song we wrote only after we received an offer, po. We knew it’s a competition of Rainbow Six Siege, so we wrote it in line with the image of the game, po, conscious of its speedy feel and momentum. However, I think the competition itself will be all about teamwork, so I wrote the lyrics while thinking also about that, po.

- So the word “gun shot” is used over and over again because of the game.

Saiki: Yeah. Hibana is also named after Hibana-chan.

Kobato: That’s the name of a girl in the game, po. I intentionally changed it to kanji [“火花”], po.

- I’m not used to anime or games, but after listening to Sense and Hibahan, and hearing your talk, I got more interested in them now. They sound fun.

Kobato: Yes, po. It’s fun to learn about a world you don’t know, po.

Saiki: I found this game so interesting when I did some research on it. It’s a game about a fight between the police and bad guys in a place based on a real town, so it’s pretty realistic. It’s like becoming a police officer myself.

Kobato: The story is also well written. The more research I do, the more words, or technical terms, related to the story I get.

Saiki: Yeah, there are insanely many skills. Also arms and names of missions to do.

- So, there’s something like what happens if you use this and that together, isn’t it?

Kobato: Yes, po. You do many different things to complete the mission, like setting traps.

Saiki: I thought it was a really interesting game.

- Anyway the two songs must have been hard. As for Platinum End, you couldn’t have written the lyrics if you hadn’t understood what will happen when you use a red arrow, what you can do with a white arrow, when you should use wings, and so on. There must be parts in both songs you couldn’t have gotten if you hadn’t understood.

Kobato: Yes, po, exactly, po. There are such parts.

Saiki: Oh, I see. We fight in both songs!

Kobato: Yeah. Both are battle songs. They are both about battle, po, right?

Saiki: This is a battle single.

- And after finishing two battles…

Kobato: We’re drowning in the end, po, right?

Saiki: Yeah, we’re drowning. The last is a drowning song. Did we fall asleep after the battles? (laughs)

- So I’d like to talk about the third song, Corallium. What you have just talked about makes me picture you sinking in a pool of blood after the battle.

Kobato: That’s totally different, po!

Saiki: I might feel sorry for the song if you interpret it like that (laughs).

- Is this a coral reef when it comes to the scenery?

Saiki: Yes, it’s a coral. I’d say it’s a point of view of a coral. I think corals are… like this (laughs).

Kobato: Like, a coral said this (laughs).

Saiki: I’ve heard corals are amazing in many ways. Like they can make air only there in the sea. Corals live boldly in the sea, you know.

Kobato: Yeah, they’ll die if they emerge above water, po.

Saiki: So, it’s like “They live because they are drowning”. That makes them alive. I tried to compare it in the lyrics.

- Oh, Saiki-san, that was what you were seeing as a lyricist! You can hear it as an ordinary love song if you don’t notice the motif of a coral.

Saiki: That’s right. I opened a mentally unstable part everyone has and played with it a little (laughs). I tried to tell something that all of you must be thinking but that none of you would tell, without your consent (laughs). Like, I told it on behalf of you.

- This is your first time writing whole lyrics to a song, isn’t it? What made you want to write lyrics?

Saiki: I said to Kanami myself, “I’m planning to practice writing lyrics soon”. Then I asked her like “Please give me a song” (laughs). I received songs to practice writing lyrics to, and I talked with her like “I’ve finished. How about this?” Meanwhile, I happened to get the chance, or rather we happened to talk about the chance (laughs), and I told I would give it a try to this song.

Kobato: That was exactly when I was busy working as Cluppo on interviews and the like. Saiki was like “Kobato must be busy” and “Then I will write” for my sake, po.

Saiki: So, it was all about timing, right?

- Timing is important. When you decide to do something, it’s important whether you have time to do it or not.

Saiki: However, Kobato wrote even though she was busy.

Kobato: I wrote, po (laughs).

Saiki: Actually I thought “Kobato is awesome!” (laughs). I was like “She should have a rest even if a little” (laughs).

Kobato: We decided I should write too just in case, and we were like “Let’s make it a competition”, so I wrote to this song, and Saiki also wrote to it. Then we were like “Which will we go with?” and we decided to go with Saiki’s lyrics this time, po.

- If so, you first received an offer from the client Kanami-san (laughs), and you wrote lyrics to the music, didn’t you? Wasn’t it hard to do so?

Saiki: It wasn’t hard in particular. I asked Kanami about parts of the melody I didn’t understand. Like “Why does this part have this melody? Can you tell me at least your intention?” (laughs). I wrote with exchanges like that.

- I think some people find it easier to constantly write lyrics without a melody. Kobato-san, how about you?

Kobato: I’ve never written lyrics first, because we Band-Maid always write music first. So I don’t know what would happen myself if I wrote lyrics first, po. I do write down ideas, though. I write down words without having a melody in my mind, and I often match them to a melody I receive, by picking some lyrics that would fit the melody from what I have written down. That’s the only process I’ve been doing, and I haven’t written whole lyrics without music yet, po. It’s strange to say this because I’ve never actually done it, but I’m probably less good at writing lyrics first, po.

- I see. What did you think, as a more experienced lyricist, about Saiki-san’s lyrics of this song?

Kobato: Well, I thought it was erotic, po (laughs), for Saiki to write these lyrics and let you all listen. They have sexiness I can’t bring out by any means, po. It might feel especially so because they have Saiki’s way of talking. It feels like Saiki shows her inside to me, and I thought it was erotic exactly because I know her, po.

Saiki: Ha ha ha ha ha!

Kobato: In my case, I’m not the type who can write about their inside. It’s easier for me to write when I have a theme, po.

- So, are you more comfortable with creating a story with a specific theme?

Kobato: Yes, po. I’m more of the type who expresses something they don’t have in themselves and who is better at creating something with a theme than showing their inside. So, I thought it’s really wonderful Saiki can write in that way, po.

- Saiki-san, did you feel like bringing out what’s in your inside rather than creating a story?

Saiki: That’s not even what I’m thinking, and more like “I’m going to tell something that you don’t tell but that you all can relate yourselves to”. I probably have it, and all of you probably have it in the bottom of your hearts even though you don’t know when you will notice or recognize it. But you don’t tell it or do it because you are rational, you know. It’s like “It’s OK, because all of us have it” (laughs). That’s probably a bigger part of it.

- However, as Kobato-san says, I felt your natural sexiness there too.

Kobato: Yeah, it does have your sexiness.

Saiki: Thank you so much.

- I also thought it was interesting you used corals as a motif.

Saiki: As for corals, somehow… I remembered them. I happened to see corals in an important scene in a film, and I happened to see news about corals when I was watching TV.

- Is it a story like a coral reef somewhere is in danger?

Saiki: Yes, something like that, and it was summer when I was writing them, so there were a lot of topics related to the see when I watched news programs, and I realized like “I hate the sea”, then I completed them from there (laughs).

- Kobato-san, having someone in the same band who writes the type of lyrics that you are not good at or that you don’t naturally come up with, must lead to the expansion of the band in the future.

Kobato: That’s right, po. That will be a new weapon we get, and it would be nice if we could pursue her future possibility as one of Band-Maid’s strengths, po.

Saiki: I’ll try my best~ (laughs).

- The two of you will come up with something totally different even if you write on the same theme. Your regular radio show has started, the film with you is out, and now your lyric world is expanding. I’m looking forward to see what events await us in the process of your world domination!


BAND-MAID

A hard rock band in maid outfits, who attracts the whole world’s attention, composed of five members: Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals), Saiki (vocals), Kanami (guitar), Misa (bass), and Akane (drums). Formed in 2013. Their first Nippon Budokan concert scheduled in February 2021, accompanied with the release of their latest album Unseen World, was unfortunately canceled due to the pandemic, but they actively engage in live streaming to maintain their connection with their masters and princesses (fans), and continue their creative activities without stopping, toward their goal of world domination.
