# Interview with Miku Kobato on Barks: “Playing the guitar needs no cuteness, po” (2021-11-09)

**Date:** 2021-11-09  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Tetsuya Karasumaru  **Translator:** t-shinji and KotomiPapa  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rm7rmy/interview_with_miku_kobato_on_barks_playing_the/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/rm7rmy/interview_with_miku_kobato_on_barks_playing_the/)  

---

Miku Kobato. It goes without saying that she is the guitarist-vocalist of Band-Maid, a band with twin vocals and twin guitars that attracts attention from rock fans all over the world. In the early days of the band, she used to comp chords on a Rickenbacker 620, but now, she is armed with her signature Zemaitis model A24MF-FP “Flappy Pigeon” and plays thick riffs.

It’s not so simple, however. We have never seen a guitarist with such a unique career as Miku Kobato of Band-Maid, not only in Japan but also overseas. She wanted to do a band and formed Band-Maid, and then she picked up a guitar after starting the band’s activity. The order is reversed from an ordinary point of view, but it might be rather natural for someone absorbed in music to have an urge to do music and to do a band first, and then to learn to play the guitar while performing on stage.

While coming a long way, how did she confront the guitar, what did she want, and what did she feel? We had a straightforward interview with the guitarist Miku Kobato.

- All right, this time we’ll talk about guitars. This is an interview with you as a guitarist.

Miku Kobato: I’m a bit nervous, po (laughs). I’m in your care, po!

- So… you started learning the guitar when you started Band-Maid?

Miku Kobato: Actually, rather than “when I started Band-Maid”, it would be more accurate to say “After I started Band-Maid”, po.

- What? Doesn’t that sound really strange?

Miku Kobato: Considering that when you form a band, the parts and roles have usually already been decided, it does seem that the order of events in our case was strange, po (laughs).

- But, you did want to play the guitar, right?

Miku Kobato: No, that was not my plan, po.

- Eh?

Miku Kobato: It’s not about whether I wanted to play the guitar or not. Um… well, I was the one who started the band, and we actually decided to go with twin vocals because that would broaden the scope of our music, po. In the beginning, the genre of our music wasn’t hard rock but rather “cool music”, then we thought that having another guitar part would help us achieve a better and cooler band sound, po. We had already decided to go with the five of us, like “It doesn’t feel right to bring in one more member”, and when we decided it would be better if either me or Saiki played an instrument, she said “I’m not going to do it”, so the result was that I said “Then… I, Kobato, will do it”, po. It started from that point, po.

- When Saiki said “I’m not going to do it”, did you feel like “Ah, I knew it”?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. The rest of us were like “That’s expected”. Since I was also the one responsible for creating the band, I said “Understood, po. I, Kobato, will handle the guitar, po.”

- (laughs) Did you practice hard after that?

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po (laughs). We wanted another guitar for the thickness of sound, but in the beginning my guitar was not so important, and my role was rather holding it for the looks, po. We emphasized our twin vocals but not our twin guitars then, so I didn’t even hold the guitar in some songs, and I played only long notes like twaang in some songs.

- That was when you used a Rickenbacker 620, wasn’t it?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. It was my first guitar I ever played, so I practiced a lot with it, but, what should I say, I didn’t play it as much as I do now, so they were like “It’s OK if you just make sound” and “It will be nice if you look cool by holding it sometime soon”.

- Once you started it, didn’t you find it hard because your fingers hurt or didn’t move smoothly?

Miku Kobato: My fingers hurt a lot in the beginning, po. However, once I started it, they were more and more like “You should play it more, you should play it more”, so I didn’t quite like the guitar at first. I didn’t hate it, but I was like “I don’t like it so much…” (laughs)

- Because you were originally a vocalist.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. It’s not that I wanted to become a guitarist. That was my starting point, but now I really love the guitar, po. However, when it comes to self-awareness as a guitarist, I probably don’t have much of it, though.

- That said, now you have the Miku Kobato model released from Zemaitis.

Miku Kobato: At first, I borrowed a Fender in the management office to use it at concerts, but it was just like an ornament at that time, po. Later, we thought I should play a little more properly, and I went to buy a guitar for the first time, po. That’s the Rickenbacker. I clearly remember that, because it was my first guitar, po.

- Why did you buy a Rickenbacker?

Miku Kobato: I chose it completely for its looks, without knowing anything about it, po. My bandmates somehow thought I would buy a mainstream guitar like a Les Paul or a Tele, but I hated ordinary-looking guitars, actually, po.

- Why?

Miku Kobato: That’s not exactly a rebellious spirit, but I wanted to have a little different vibe than others… I wanted to have something different than Kanami’s guitar, which is why.

- The Rick 620 is small and compact, so it fits your size.

Miku Kobato: When I held a Fender, because of its size, it wasn’t clear whether I was holding it or it was holding me, po (laughs). I don’t look good when I hold it, and I really hate to look like the guitar is holding me, po. Looking for a guitar that would fit my size and look a little different from other guitars, I went to quite a lot of instrument shops, and then I found the Rickenbacker.

- Did it click with you?

Miku Kobato: Its shape was very cute and it was small, so I thought it’s cool, po. However, the shop had only red-and-white ones and blue-and-white ones, while I wanted a black-and-white one.

- I think the red or the blue are cuter and nicer than the black, though.

Miku Kobato: The only thing I had already decided was, I would buy a black-and-white one because my outfit is black-and-white.

- How about the sound or the playing feel?

Miku: I didn’t know, po. It was only two or three months since I had started the guitar, so I was like “I don’t know anything about sound, po”. I didn’t know so many chords yet, so I bought an instrument really without knowing anything, po. I was like a school kid in My First Errand (laughs). So I bought it for its looks rather than its sound, po.

- It’s interesting you appeared on stage while you were like that.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. Other guitarists might have wondered “Who the hell is this girl?” (laughs)

- What’s your next guitar?

Miku Kobato: I went straight to the Zemaitis, po. Our songs got more and more intense around then, so I thought the Rick wasn’t enough. As the years went by and as I grew, I began to play louder little by little, but I was still buried by the other two stringed instruments and you couldn’t hear me even if I tried to play loud. And if I played too loud, I was out of place and didn’t match, so I thought it was about time to get a guitar that would match with our current songs rather than the Rick.

- You sound more of a guitarist.

Miku Kobato: Of course there were also songs the Rick matched well with, but there were more songs that need intensity above all, and it doesn’t have enough thickness when I strum it, so I wanted to get a kind of heavier guitar that would match with my strumming. That’s when I got to know Zemaitis. The Zemaitis guitar clicked with me, po. For both its looks and its sound.

- So, that’s how you got a C24MF.

Miku Kobato: It’s a metal-front Leaf, po. By that time, I knew a little more about guitars (laughs), so I tried a lot of models, and the sharpness and the heaviness of the metal front shone or glittered a lot to my eye. I also liked the leaf, po.

- You were already a fine guitarist.

Miku Kobato: I grew a lot, po (laughs).

Photo

- As you went up step by step as a guitarist, did you feel expectation or pressure from your bandmates?

Miku Kobato: I felt under pressure, of course, po. They also worried about me. Like “Are you OK with it? Kobato, are you sure you can do it?” (laughs) Rather than whether I could do it, they told me “If you don’t want to do it, it’s OK to give it up and bring in a support member”, po. I also had a hard time deciding whether to give up the guitar or to keep going a little more, but it didn’t feel right to bring in another member there, so I decided to keep going in the end, po.

- So, the band’s sound itself needed two guitars.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po, it was simply because one guitar was not enough for our sound, po. We Band-Maid decide what to do somewhat based on our songs, so that was a question of what we wanted to do for our songs, not for ourselves, po.

- Which was your view on holding your guitar on stage, in a cool fashion or in a cute fashion?

Miku Kobato: I thought of holding it only in a cool fashion, po. I never thought about cuteness, po.

- That’s why you chose a black-and-white guitar.

Miku Kobato: In the first place, our concept of contrast is to show cuteness by our maid outfits and coolness by our performance, so I thought playing the guitar needs no cuteness.

- You can play it in a cute fashion, though…

Miku Kobato: That’s not a bad thing, but it was my idea to be both cute and cool, so I haven’t thought about a cute playing style, po.

- You’re right, you’ve been extremely cool since the days when you used to perform at Eggman, and only your outward appearance was cute.

Miku Kobato: Otherwise, we wouldn’t be Band-Maid, po.

- As time went by, you got more Zemaitis guitars.

Miku Kobato: The first one was a Leaf, and the next one was a Zemaitis with skull cards [note: Zemaitis CS24MF Aces & Eights]. Band-Maid songs have various tunings, from drop C to regular, so having only one guitar wasn’t enough at servings (Band-Maid concerts), po. In our solo servings, the setlist lasts two hours almost without any MC, so I needed guitars for the tuning range, like “One more guitar. And one more guitar.” (laughs) The Leaf and the Skull were my main guitars, but I customized others, like, for a special purpose or with a different material, po.

- I’m so jealous of you for having so many Zemaitis. Have you ever flirted with other guitars?

Miku Kobato: Absolutely never, po. I sometimes try Kanami’s PRS, but I’ve never been tempted to guitars other than Zemaitis, po. I don’t really want to have other guitars, because I love Zemaitis guitars best by far, so I’m faithful in that sense, po (laughs).

- So, it was a great encounter for you.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. Of course there are many other cool guitars, and I’m sometimes like “Oh, this guitar is cool” at instrument shops, but I definitely use Zemaitis at servings, po.

Photo

- It’s important how it would look with your stage outfit.

Miku Kobato: Considering how it looks on stage and its tight and heavy sound, Zemaitis fits me perfectly, po.

- And finally, your signature model Flappy Pigeon came out.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. They told me “Let’s make a custom guitar” like a surprise present, and I was like “What? Really, po? You must be kidding”, po. But that was true, and it was actually going to be released, so I thought “What? Do I deserve it?”, po.

- So did you design as you like?

Miku Kobato: It seems they were thinking of changing only the metal-front design based on my usual guitar, but I asked them “Can I change the shape of the metal or add shell, po?”

Photo

- You dared to ask that (laughs).

Miku Kobato: Yeah (laughs). I’m sorry I’m more knowledgeable than before (laughs), so I had a lot of things I wanted to do, po. At first they were like “What?” (laughs) I had customized my usual Zemaitis a lot, and if the sound was too different I would have to change my settings again, so I told them “Please make it match with my current settings, po” without reserve. They were surprised but said “If you are so particular about it and so precise, we will try it.”

- As a result, you’ve created a unique design with a metal front and shell.

Miku Kobato: Actually, Zemaitis made a metal-front with shell just once in the past (CS24MF Leaf Inlay released in 2016). I thought “Oh, they had this kind of guitar, po.” I hadn’t seen it in Japan, and its design was cool, so I thought I would be able to do what I wanted to do while keeping the good points of a metal-front, po, and I told them “I’ve found this one” (laughs).

- (laughs)

Miku Kobato: I wanted to have rose-shaped shell, but it would become cute with my drawing skill and I didn’t want to compromise on coolness in this opportunity, so I asked a designer I know to design it with so many ideas I personally had, like a pigeon motif and the like while keeping the leaf relief…

Photo

Photo

- So, its design came from your side.

Miku Kobato: When I said “I want to do this, po” to a Zemaitis person responsible for it, he was like “Something awesome has come out”.

- The design is filled with love for Zemaitis.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. I wanted to cherish the Zemaitis identity and the Zemaitis patterns.

- How did you feel when the guitar was completed?

Miku Kobato: I was very happy, po. It was much cooler than expected, and I thought I would be able to recommend it with confidence to anyone, po.

- And the case was also specially designed in the end.

Miku Kobato: They asked me “Do you want to create a case too?” so I was like “Is it OK with you? How much am I allowed to do, po?” (laughs) They told me “This is a good opportunity, so you can design the case”, so I created it with the color I wanted. The guitar itself is packed with the Zemaitis identity, and I thought it would be nice to have a cute case for the contrast when you open it, so I used the color that’s not really like Zemaitis. It’s become like a randoseru [note: a leather backpack for school children], po.

- It’s like a new first grader.

Miku Kobato: It feels like a randoseru because I intentionally used shiny metal buckles, po. There was a fashion trend of randoseru overseas, so I hope people overseas will accept this case too.

Photo

- This girly style is nice. The guitar is packed with so many stories, which is fantastic.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po (laughs). I used to know only the ABC of guitar, but now I can be even “particular” about my guitar, which means a lot to me, po.

- I wish you continued success with this guitar in the next 3 years, 10 years, and 20 years.

Miku Kobato: I want to keep my own character in 3 years or 20 years, and I want to stay free from the common way of thinking that “A guitarist must do this”, po. What made me a guitarist-vocalist was strange in the first place.

- Strange for sure (laughs). But that’s all right.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. What should I say… You need the minimum knowledge and you need to practice, of course, but if you stick to fixed ideas like “You must love your guitar if you’re a guitarist” or “You must know guitar terms”, you can hardly start the guitar, don’t you think?

- You’re right. If you are always expected to make full efforts, you’ll easily give up.

Miku Kobato: Right. Like, you can’t go ahead if you can’t play the F chord. That’s not true, po.

Photo

- So, you can go ahead even if you can’t play the F chord.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. When I started the guitar, honestly I didn’t know even what the F chord is, po. I was on stage without knowing it, po (laughs). Now I know it of course, but I want to say “You don’t have to know it.” That’s not exactly thinking easily… but I believe it’s OK for a little more diverse people to play the guitar, po.

- I truly agree with you. Lastly, we have an out-of-place question. Which guitarist has influenced you?

Miku Kobato: (laughs) The reason why I formed a band was because I liked Tokyo Jihen, po. Ringo-san plays the guitar, you know. But she’s not a guitarist, and not really a guitarist-vocalist either, don’t you think?

- I understand. But she’s cool.

Miku Kobato: Yes, she’s cool, po. My way of holding a guitar as a guitarist is probably influenced by her. I think I’m greatly influenced by the fact that she’s full of her own character, po.

Photo

- Trying to pursue your own character?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. It’s not that I want to be Ringo-san, but I think it’s important to establish your own character, po.

- This guitarist interview is about to end smoothly. Thank you very much.

Miku Kobato: Before, I was sometimes like “Kanami-chan, what should I do? Tomorrow, I’ll be asked about guitar, po. What should I say? Why don’t you join me?” but now, I think it’s all right because I’m what I am, po.

- That’s nice.

Miku Kobato: However, that’s probably thanks to these Zemaitis. Without Zemaitis, I might not have been able to continue up to now, po. Since I’ve met Zemaitis, I think I can stay a guitarist-vocalist, po.
