# Band-Maid: Unleash​, an EP full of their uniqueness and newness, is now ready. “It’s literally an unleashing work.”

**Date:** 2022-10-16  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/y5jtdw/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/y5jtdw/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/)  
**Original URL:** [https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000224736](https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000224736)  

---

Band-Maid’s Unleash, to be released on September 21, is an EP that is more than an EP. If you think its EP format means a single with a few more songs or a mini-album, you are totally wrong. The richness of the EP with eight songs in total is comparable to that of a full-length album.

We would venture to say that it reminds us of a vinyl LP in past times. It contains some previously released songs, but each of them has a strong raison d’être on it. We interviewed the band on a day in August when they were preparing for their first in-person servings (concerts) in a while in Japan, which they recently completed. Here, we present the uncut interview from start to finish.

- First of all, please tell us your overall impression. How did this work turn out?

Kanami (guitar): This time, I personally think it’s a collection of songs that feel new. I might be saying this every time we release something, but this EP shows the Band-Maid style and at the same time our new side.

Saiki (vocals): I agree on that. We put our feelings of starting the second round, or the second chapter, of world domination from here into it, and I believe it matches well with that in many ways and it will meet your expectations.

Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals): That’s right, po. The title of “Unleash” means “liberation”, po, and I think the songs on this EP perfectly fit it, po. All of them are songs that would unleash our frustrations and the like in the COVID pandemic, and there’s not a single gentle song (laughs). It’s our first collection in years only with intense songs like this, so it turned out to be literally an unleashing work, po.

- So, if you unleash your feelings now, you have no choice but to make it intense, don’t you?

Miku Kobato: You are right, po! (laughs)

Akane (drums): It’s our first time having an instrumental as the first track, which is one of its appealing points. All the songs, from the instrumental to the final track, are different in taste, including technical ones and listenable ones, even though they are equally intense and pumping, so I think it’s an EP with many different expressions you won’t get tired of.

Misa (bass): This happens every time, but each and every song is very unique. Also, even though their sound is often aggressive, the fast songs are not super-fast for Band-Maid songs…

Saiki: We didn’t try to break the speed record.

Miku Kobato: But from an ordinary point of view, the fast songs are fast, po (laughs).

Misa: That said, they are not extremely fast for Band-Maid songs. So there are quite a few songs I can play calmly. I really feel the variety of songs, or the range of songs, has broadened again.

Saiki

- So, just like Unseen World, it has your uniqueness and also newness. And you have gained another strength.

Misa: Yes, that’s what I mean!

- Unleash!!!!! Was an advanced release from this EP, and its music video combined with animation was epoch-making. The reaction was also amazing!

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. And the reaction spread so fast, po.

Saiki: We received a lot of comments as soon as we set up the premiere…

Miku Kobato: We noticed this only after some comments pointed it out, but it had been about 10 months since Sense when it comes to a music video of a new song, po. We didn’t realize such a long time had passed, so we were surprised like “Oh, this was the first time in such a long time!”, po. We had released a limited acoustic CD and acoustic videos, so we didn’t feel we hadn’t released a new song for a while, po. However, it was a new song after a really long time for our masters and princesses (fans), so they must have been looking forward to it for long, po. Especially in my case, I was also doing Cluppo, so I didn’t feel like it had been a long time, po.

Akane: I was surprised myself like “Was it such a long time?!” when I just heard that (laughs).

Kanami: So… thank you very much for waiting!

- Last time on Barks, we interviewed Kobato-san, Saiki-san, and Kanami-san about Unleash!!!!! And heard that it was created as a song that would mark the beginning of the second chapter of your world domination. It’s interesting that a video for it is an animation.

Saiki: Yes. Actually we didn’t even imagine we could make it happen. But we all had been saying for a long time, “We want to be in anime!” (laughs) That’s because we have established our personalities this well.

Akane: Yeah. We were talking about how easy it would be to make us into characters.

Saiki: I was happy it came true and even happier they drew us so fabulous!

Miku Kobato: They drew us really in detail. By the time when me and Saiki had the first online meeting with the production staff, they had already done a full research on each of our personalities. Like, Kanami loves Saiki, and Akane makes funny faces, for example (laughs). They had done a lot of research before we explained anything, and they digged into even more details from there, po.

- I can clearly see how thorough the research was in the fact that one of you is drinking in the anime.

Misa: I’m drinking all the way through in it (laughs).

Miku Kobato: And Akane is goofing around with a banana in her hand.

Akane: I was impressed, like “They did a perfect research”.

Saiki: And Kanami’s eyes turn into heart marks when she sees me.

Kanami: Awww! (laughs)

Miku Kobato: We exchanged with them several times on Zoom and talked with them in person. They also took pictures of our costumes in detail. Like “What kind of shoes do you wear?” Our instruments too, po.

Saiki: They really drew the instruments in great detail!

Miku Kobato: They perfectly reproduced the patterns, thankfully, po.

Saiki: They drew even our accessories properly. They wanted information on the accessories, so we sent them pictures. I’m very happy they’ve made a fantastic work.

Miku Kobato

- Moreover, the video also works as a kind of self-introduction. These anime characters really exist, and they are about to attack the enemy. I think it will come across to those who don’t know well about Band-Maid.

Saiki: That’s right. We got fired up even more when the video was completed, and we were really like “Yes, yes, this is what we wanted!” (laughs)

Miku Kobato: You know, there are scenes in the beginning where we appear one by one, po. Each of them is linked to a scene from our past music videos. You can feel our history so far like that, so I was like “Wow, this is awesome, po!”

Band-Maid

- And this time the EP featuring Unleash!!!!! Came out. An EP usually means something like a mini-album, but this EP with eight songs in total is really satisfying. Isn’t it almost like an album in a sense?

Miku Kobato: It feels as packed as an album, po.

- Let me ask you about each song. First, about Track 1 From now on, which is an instrumental. Does its title mean something like “Here we go now!”?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po!

Saiki: I wanted to create a work that starts off with an instrumental. I had always thought about that, and I proposed each time we added a few more songs for a single, but I hadn’t been able to make it real. But this time, we started creating this EP to vent our frustrations that were built up during the period when we couldn’t do in-person servings this long, and we came up with an extremely cool instrumental, so we decided to put it as the first track in this opportunity.

- Saiki-san, it’s interesting you take the lead in explaining the song even though it’s an instrumental (laughs). So, it was not written with an intention to make it the opening song, was it?

Saiki: That’s right. I was only like “Please write a new instrumental!” and then we went on the production… We decided the song order only after all the songs were ready. However, when From now on was completed, I secretly thought it could be the first track. And we did so.

Kanami

- On the contrary, Kanami-san, if you decide to write an instrumental specifically for the first track, you will have more pressure as a composer, won’t you?

Kanami: … Certainly! (laughs) It’s not me but always the two (Kobato and Saiki) who decide the song order. So, when it comes to composition itself, I’m allowed to do anything freely (laughs). As for the timeline, I wrote From now on based on my experience of Sense. Since I studied quite a lot about orchestra for Sense, I was asked to write an instrumental with orchestral elements, and I decided to take this opportunity to write one. Then, when the song order was decided, I was surprised myself like “Oh, it’s going to be Track 1!” (laughs).

Saiki: You were panicked, right? (laughs)

Kanami: Like “Whaat? Is it OK to make it Track 1?” (laughs)

Miku Kobato: When we thought of the song order, we talked about it like “Wouldn’t it be cool if we start with it just like an opening music of the serving?”, po. So, we decided to put it at Track 1, po.

Kanami: Oh, did you? I see.

- If I remember correctly, when you were writing Sense, you were asked by the TV anime side for a song with orchestration, weren’t you? That’s why you had to study it.

Kanami: That’s right. So… what should I say? I feel I was able to write it thanks to that experience.

- So you feel that your studies have properly borne fruit or increased your repertoires, don’t you?

Kanami: Yes, I do. I realized again there are a lot of things you can do only if you study hard. Also, even if I have learned something, it will gradually escape my mind and get lost as time goes by.

Miku Kobato: That’s true, po. So, write a song with orchestra again from time to time (laughs).

- In any case, you wanted to create a work that opens with an instrumental song someday, didn’t you?

Akane: Yes. As I play in the band, it feels very precious, or rather fortunate, that we instrumentalists also receive attention like this, so it’s like a song of gratitude (laughs). So my image of this song is “We will pass this momentum to the next song!” and “We will liven it up in the opening!” It has our determination to liven up the EP.

- Each of you has a short highlight in it.

Misa: I didn’t compromise on the bass solo in this song. Like, after I received the original song, I quickly wrote a solo and shared it with the rest of us, then we were like “Wouldn’t it be better to have a sad-feeling solo?” and I rewrote it. Throughout this entire EP, I wrote many of my phrases on the keyboard, in order to reduce phrases coming from my habitual patterns, and also to increase my repertoires through that. The same goes for this solo, and it turned out like this probably because I wrote it on the keyboard.

- The EP starts with such an instrumental, and without a pause leads to Balance. As you have just said “There’s not a single gentle song”, its lyrics start off with “I can shut you out”, which is so intense.

Miku Kobato: The protagonist suddenly shuts you out. She’s so tsundere, po (laughs). This time there are a lot of aggressive songs, not just this song, so I guess our feelings also became like that, po.

Saiki: Right, we might have had a harsh vibe back when we were working on it (laughs).

Miku Kobato: I guess we had various frustrations, po, really.

- The lines “Bet all now!! Everything to me” are very strong. That means you order us to bet all on you without considering anything else.

Miku Kobato: It has a pretty strong feel, po. When I listened to the music, I thought its melody and instruments were both cool and that made me want to use strong words, po, without thinking much about relationship or balance with other songs, po. Then, when I was writing lyrics to it, I mainly used Japanese words in many other songs, so I thought it would be better to use a little more English and have a more rhythmical feel for it, po.

Kanami: I had been asked for a shuffle rhythm song for quite a long time, so I started writing it with that image. Also, I also wanted to give it a futuristic feel, so I added a little experimental taste to it and tried to give it some newness. Personally, it’s like a song that will be popular in 10 years or so… I don’t know what it will be like in 10 years, though (laughs). I hope it will be a punchy song, or a song that can break the atmosphere in a good way, when we start servings again later.

Akane: As a drummer, I had the hardest time recording Balance. The grooves keep changing like a groove of triplets, a groove of 8th notes, and a groove of 16th notes in each section such as the A-melody [note: first half of the verse], the B-melody [note: second half of the verse], and the chorus, so it was very difficult to express those grooves and to switch them in a flash at the beginning of the next section. Before the recording, we instrumentalists made sure we had a common understanding like “This one goes like this, and the next one goes like this”, and then we went to record it. The drums in the chorus have a groove of 8th notes, but the axes (guitars, bass) have a groove of triplets, so we were talking about that like “Which will we match with?”

Kanami: That’s also a part I wanted to have something new in. I remember saying “The drums are like this but I want to go with triplets for the axes”.

Akane: Yeah. I added a nuance of hitting the 8th notes slightly late to the beat to go with the triplets. It’s like my feeling goes with the triplets rather than completely matching the notes. In a sense, I emphasized the human groove.

Misa: That was the hardest part at the recording, as expected. When we have to play the triplets on the axes while she’s hitting the 8th notes in the chorus, we tend to be pulled to the 8th-note groove. So I had a hard time there, but when I listened to the recording, it was really cool, so I’m glad I took on that challenge.

Misa

- That groove feels nice. As for the vocals, there are pretty high notes. In our last interview, we talked about the high notes at the beginning of the vocals of Unleash!!!!!, but Balance also has a lot of very high notes, and in fact, this time, not only this song…

Saiki: All the songs are like that! (laughs) I feel like it has always been a dash at full speed until now but this time it’s a long-distance run at full speed. That’s true for Unleash!!!!! But also for Balance and Influencer in particular. I had sung those high notes in our past songs, but they had never lasted this long.

- You mean they were used only for a moment before but they are used for a long duration this time, don’t you?

Saiki: Yes, exactly. Like, in the past songs, the notes often get higher at the end of the chorus, but this time they get high from the beginning of the chorus. And there are so many developments where the high notes keep coming. In a sense, I can handle them only because I’ve been working out to get a fit body. However, in the future servings, I will probably ask them like “Leave some time between them!” so that such songs won’t keep coming in a row (laughs).

Miku Kobato: Right, we were saying we wouldn’t be able to play them in this order, po.

Saiki: Exactly. The same song order as the EP probably won’t happen (laughs).

Miku Kobato: She says it won’t happen, po (laughs).

- Now the EP accelerates with a larger momentum with Unleash!!!!!. More specifically, it feels speeding up especially at “Dan! Dan! Di, di, dan! Dan!”

Akane: It doesn’t actually speed up there, but I think it feels speedy because the beat is downbeat. I really love this song. It feels fresh from the first beat, and I kept thinking “This song is so cool!” during the production. Like, it’s easy to listen to but it’s very satisfying with a lot of developments. Compared to the other songs, it’s simple or rather not very technical, and its drumming phrases are simpler, so it’s easy on the ear. I was sure it would be popular.

Misa: I also wanted to make the bass ear-catching there. I usually use my main bass, and I used it to record most of the songs on this EP, but I wanted to change its character a little, so I tried using a setup only with the front pickup for the first time to record this song. I think the sound became aggressive and very cool thanks to that, I myself enjoyed the difference in characters of sound. All the songs are cool of course, but this song was already ear-catching first time I listened to it, and I thought it would be a popular song. So I wanted to make something ear-catching also on the bass.

Saiki: Like leaving your mark?

Misa: Yeah, that’s right.

- The song does not only move forward with a speedy feel but also have characters on each sound, which is its hook. As for the lyrics, Kobato-san, Saiki-san, you co-wrote them. Do you co-write lyrics by exchanging between you?

Miku Kobato: We each tried writing lyrics to this song first, po. We already had a theme of the second chapter of world domination and unleashing, so we went with it. After that, we combined the best parts of both lyrics, or rather, kind of went on merging them, po.

Saiki: The lyrics Kobato wrote had very good contents, exactly like the second chapter of world domination and unleashing our frustrations. So, the contents were based on hers, and I created the sound feel and the attack feel, like literally “Dan! Dan! Di, di, dan! Dan!” and so on.

- Your teamwork functions in a good way.

Miku Kobato: Yes, I think so, po. Before, I’m the only one who writes lyrics and Saiki only modifies some parts that bother her, but now that she also writes, we can combine the best parts of both of us. I felt that was something very new, po.

- Kanami-san, I’d like to ask you this again. Are you satisfied with the quality of the song?

Kanami: Yes! It turned out very cool thanks to the cooperation of my bandmates. I always write a song first and share it, then all of us arrange it, add vocals, and make nice vocal harmonies… A good song like this comes out because we create it in that way. I really think this is a song only the five of us can write, so…

Miku Kobato: “So”? You mean “Period”, po (laughs).

Akane

- I think so too (laughs). Then comes Sense. It has been a while since it was released as a single. How do you feel about this song now?

Saiki: We are now preparing for a tour, and we are planning to play mainly the songs on Unleash, but I feel this song has been there since quite a long time ago (laughs).

Miku Kobato: The song itself has a big name vibe.

Saiki: A big name vibe! (laughs) But I guess you’re right. The intro also has such an impression.

- It has already gotten a signature song vibe.

Akane: You’re right. When we make a setlist, Sense in a long list of songs makes us feel its presense like “Kaboom!” (laughs)

Miku Kobato: So it doesn’t feel like a new song anymore, po.

Akane: Rather, it gives us a sense of security or dependability. Why is that?

Saiki: I think that partly comes from the song’s character itself. It’s a song that’s fully in the Band-Maid style, and its structure is pretty close to our past songs.

- So, in other words, it’s an authentic song of the band.

Saiki: I think that’s one of the reasons.

Kanami: Uh-huh, I see… I understood by hearing that just now (laughs).

Miku Kobato: Also, it’s been 10 months since its release, so I think it’s also simply because of the passage of time.

- However, even though time has passed since its release, you haven’t digested it at servings since then. But you feel that way. Isn’t it because you feel it’s accepted by listeners?

Misa: That’s possible.

Saiki: Sense is well received, thankfully. Many of them said “This is the Band-Maid song!” or “I’ve waited for a song like this!” We felt they had waited for it at the time of its release. We were so happy to see such reactions on social media back then, which is another reason.

Akane: Also, as you expect, we saw those who got to like us Band-Maid for this song on social media, thanks to the TV anime Platinum End. It already feels like our new signature song.

Miku Kobato: Also, the orchestral intro gives a strong impression, which may lead to its big name vibe, po.

Saiki: Exactly. It gives a kind of seasoned veteran vibe (laughs).

Akane: You know, hearing the sound of orchestra makes you feel it’s a little formal, doesn’t it?

Saiki

- Yes, hearing the strings has a sobering effect on you.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. Sense was our first song that starts with a full orchestra like that, so our masters and princesses must have been surprised, but I think they accepted it like “It really fits the song!”, po.

Akane: The fact that it fits the song really well made us feel stronger.

Miku Kobato: It was like “We got another strength!”, po.

Misa: Yeah. I thought it will absolutely look great live. I can imagine us standing on stage to play it when I hear its intro.

- And because of its intro, it would be inevitably placed in an important scene at servings, so you could say it gave you an expectation from the beginning that it would become a special song. The next song is I’ll. Kanami-san, what were you thinking when you wrote it?

Kanami: It’s a little low-pitched song. I wanted to write a song that starts with a low-pitched vibe with murmured words that make you wonder what is said. I wrote it with that image. However, I’ve changed the riff two or three times, I think?

Misa: Yeah, you have.

Kanami: Some of us pointed out the riff sounded a little similar to a past song, so I changed it a couple of times and ended up using this riff.

- This song has lower notes but requires a strong voice, doesn’t it?

Saiki: Yes.

Miku Kobato: It looked like you had a hard time again in a different way than high notes, po.

Saiki: Because, more than anything, there’s no timing to breathe (laughs). It’s not limited to this song, but I initially told Kanami the songs have too many melodies. So we reduced them little by little to have a more spatial feel. However, even though I said so, the melody-packed vibe is one of Band-Maid’s unique qualities, you know. So, I noticed like “We haven’t had such a song recently, because I’m the one who doesn’t like it” (laughs) so I asked her for such a song.

Kanami: We changed some parts based on suggestions like “Is it OK change this part?”

Miku Kobato: I remember we changed the melody of the beginning of the chorus and the number of melodies, po.

Kanami: I was asked “Is it OK to change this?” and I was like “As you like” (laughs). It went like that. I’m always the one who writes original songs first, so all my bandmates ask me like “Is it OK to change?” considering my feelings. I’m like “Ah, I have truly kind bandmates” every time (laughs).

Miku Kobato

- I guess naturally you all consider Kanami-san’s feelings to some extent, don’t you?

Saiki: Yes, naturally. We shouldn’t change anything without letting her know. I’m also like “What if she has an intention there?”

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. There have been some cases where she had an unexpected intention. I was like “Oh, I didn’t know that, po!”

- The exchange of sounds is just like a conversation, and sometimes you notice like “That casual comment was actually what she wanted to say most”, don’t you? You take that into consideration together to make it a reality. As a result, this song feels a little like the odd one out on the EP.

Misa: Yes, it is. Its overall vibe is heavy and dark, and it kind of suits a dark hero. As for the bass, I was conscious of such an image, but Saiki’s vocal melody is beautiful in the chorus, so I made the bass simple to make her stand out.

Akane: As for the drums, I wanted to have a heavier medium-pitched feel, so I worked on it while focusing quite a lot on expressing the length, the weight, and the tempo. I used my brain quite a lot on how to express quarter notes, how long I keep the sustain of the bass drum, and so on.

Saiki: I remembered one thing. When I talked with Kanami, I asked her for a part where me and Kobato exchange vocals for the first time in a while. It’s included in this song.

Miku Kobato, Kanami: (In perfect unison) Oh! (laughs)

Saiki: We hadn’t had something like that recently. I asked for elements that remind us of our indie-label days or our early major-label days. I remembered that just now!

Kanami: Thank you very much (laughs).

Band-Maid

- Now, Track 6 is Corallium. Saiki-san, it’s a memorable song you wrote whole lyrics to for the first time. It was also included as a B-side in the single Sense.

Saiki: Yes, I’m like “Thanks for including it here again” (laughs). I wrote the lyrics by myself for the first time… Writing lyrics was fun in itself, and it also made me realize the difficulty of the Japanese language. There are a lot of words to say the same thing, so I thought a lot about which word to use and which one would be pleasant to the ear. I was looking for something that feels good in the mouth, so frankly speaking, I’m glad I made it a reality.

- Saiki-san, your lyric writing has become another strength of the band. The contrast between your sweetness and intensity is also brilliant.

Saiki: Thank you so much. In my image, I wanted to make it a kind of love song like Choose me. I wanted to use “drown” in my expressions. “Drowning in love”, “drowning in romance”, or “wanting to drown in you” are probably expressions unique to the Japanese language. You use similar expressions in English, but I thought they were very much of the Japanese language. The song itself has a structure with intensely changing high and low notes, you know. I think the atmosphere of the lyrics fit it well.

Kanami: The lyrics on the melody sound pleasant to the ear… which is nice. I really understand what she means by “it feels good in the mouth”. When these lyrics fit with this melody, they sound like this, which was a new discovery for me, so I was fascinated by how the song changed. It was fun to write that way.

Kanami

- The next is Influencer. It’s also pretty intense!

Kanami: I was pretty conscious of newness when I wrote it. It’s based on the Band-Maid style, but I wrote it with an image that… it will give accent to future servings (laughs).

Saiki: It’s also a song that showcases our instrumentalists. Am I right?

Kanami: Yes, it is (laughs). I thought it would be interesting to have a long bass solo, so I asked Misa to take care of it, and then she came up with such a cool bass solo that I was moved. It’s fantastic.

Saiki: The bass solo is the highlight, isn’t it? The climax of the song.

Misa: Really?

Saiki: Yeah. I say that with confidence (laughs).

Misa: Also in this song, I didn’t want to show my habitual patterns in the bass solo, so I wrote all the phrases on the keyboard. I thought it would be nice to have such a song.

Saiki: It felt new and different than usual!

Misa: Yeah. I would be happy if you could notice it’s different than usual when you listen to it (laughs). I have the impression that each one of us had a lot of time to work on ideas for the songs this time, including this.

Akane: I agree. As for the drums in this song, I wanted to have clean sounds without packing too much, so I was conscious of hitting almost exclusively the basic three [note: the bass drum, the snare, and the hi-hat] all the way through, without inserting tom rolls here and there.

- It would be important to have a spatial feel especially when you drum with the bass solo.

Akane: Yes. I go with the basic three there, like the bass drum, the snare, and the cymbal.

Misa: It’s a simple, cool song.

- Its simplicity certainly shines among the eight songs. As for the lyrics, the title of the song seems to have something to do with the current trends, doesn’t it?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. Actually I wrote the lyrics much later than the other songs on the EP, po. I talked with Saiki and Akane on video chat about what kind of theme would be good for this song, po. So I asked “What do you think is a good theme?”, and since I’m posting on TikTok every day, they were like… What did you say again?

Saiki: Women who live on social media (laughs).

Miku Kobato: That’s it, po! You said that, po!

Saiki: Kobato has been writing about various images of women for us so far. Like, I asked her to write about a woman who wants to stay beautiful (laughs) [note: PAGE]. Kobato has been working hard on TikTok since the start of Cluppo and has become an awesome expert about social media, so I thought she knew a lot about those women, while I don’t, and I asked like “Kobato, what kind of people do you think influencers are? Tell me.”

Misa

- It’s an interesting way of suggestion. “Women who live on social media” sounds like the Japanese title of a film or something.

Miku Kobato: You are right, po, it sounds like a secondary title, po (laughs).

Akane: It’s very modern.

Saiki: It’s only in this day and age. I got the impression that such people had increased during the COVID pandemic, so I asked her to write about them.

- The lyrics are real in that sense, and some listeners might feel like “Is this about me?” or might be reminded of someone they know.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. In fact, I read a lot of interviews with influencers and did a lot of research, while analyzing like “Oh, I see, po, they think like this, po.” There are a lot of cases where the same person writes totally different things on Twitter and on Instagram, which makes me wonder if they are really the same person, po.

- All right, may I suggest your next theme? How about “women who make full use of finstas”?

All: (laughs out loud)

Miku Kobato: Oh, I see! That sounds nice, po (laughs). I’ll look for some more interviews (laughs).

- There must be a lot of people on finsta who vent their hateful feelings.

Akane: Oh, I see, that led to the next song! (laughs)

- So, Track 8 is HATE?. The very last song has a scary title. I believe it was written rather early among the songs on the EP, wasn’t it?

Kanami: It may be the oldest song among these. I wrote this song back when I was writing a lot of riffs. Originally, I was thinking of writing a riff-based instrumental, and then we decided to add a vocal melody to it. She asked me if she could sing the instrumental melody already there as it was, so I had her sing it… [Note: the speaker is noted as Akane in the original Japanese text, but I changed it to Kanami.]

Saiki: Yeah. I had her complete it as it was.

- Saiki-san, you wrote the lyrics. Was this intense scene of the lyrics inspired by the music?

Saiki: Yes. Around when I listened to the music, there happened to be a lot of terrible news stories. That was when I was going through irritating events myself, and I honestly thought to myself, “I hate you”.

Akane: Cool. You suddenly used English (laughs).

- It’s so intense from the first line, like you don’t let men say anything. I even wondered like “Does Saiki-san have any problem?”

Saiki: Ha ha ha!

Miku Kobato: It occurred to me just now, po, that we shut you out in Balance and shut you out again in HATE?, which is kind of awesome, po! (laughs)

- The title has a question mark, so I expected you had some feeling that might be hatred and would end up saying “I hate you but I love you”…

Saiki: Not at all. Because I say “It’s meaningless” at the end (laughs). However, these lyrics were purely inspired by the music. When I listened to it for the first time, I had the impression that Kanami was pissed off by something. Like, she was irritated (laughs).

Kanami: That’s not true, though… However, I had an image of explosion about it.

Akane

- That’s exactly what Unleash!!!!! Is, isn’t it? It has an unleashing feel. Like, you want to blow away the black fog that appears in the music video of Unleash!!!!!. I guess this song has such feelings, just like Unleash!!!!!.

Saiki: Yes. I think that’s true. Also, this song will stand out at servings too, won’t it?

All: Yeah!

Akane: When the lyrics go like this, we will vent the same emotion in performance, and we are rather used to that in Band-Maid songs. Like, going with an explosive vibe, or a speedy feel, all the way through. In that sense, it was easier to record it than the other songs. We knew how to work on it beforehand.

- Listening to you talk like this makes me think this EP is full of your uniqueness and newness again and you will continue to expand while deepening your musicality. Moreover, prior to the release of the EP, you will finally start servings again, and you will tour the US in October. What do you think will change in future servings after the production of this EP, if any?

Saiki: We haven’t done in-person servings for a while, so we feel like we will make a fresh start again. I don’t know what will happen, but I’m sure they will be absolutely awesome!

- Please completely vent your frustrations there.

Saiki: Yes. That’s what our setlists will be all about (laughs).

Miku Kobato: It’s like we can’t do it without venting our frustrations, po!
