# Moving forward non-stop toward the 10th anniversary of their debut, with a new EP that will “unleash” them and kick off the second chapter of their world domination

**Date:** 2022-09-22  
**Publication:** Natalie  
**Interviewer:** Tomokazu Nishihiro  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1aijrgv/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_a/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1aijrgv/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_natalie_a/)  
**Original URL:** [https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid08](https://natalie.mu/music/pp/bandmaid08)  

---

Band-Maid released their new EP Unleash on September 21.

Under the title of “Unleash”, it contains eight songs including From now on, an instrumental with an aggressive band sound, Sense, the opening theme of the anime Platinum End with magnificent string elements, and I’ll, which features alternate twin vocals of Miku Kobato (vocals/guitar) and Saiki (vocals).

We at Music Natalie interviewed them about the EP, which they produced with the theme of the beginning of the second chapter of their world domination, as well as about their feelings on their first in-person serving (concert) in two years and a half and about their 10th anniversary next year.

Interviewer: Tomokazu Nishibiro

Photographer: Daishi Saito

- You Band-Maid couldn’t start in-person servings (concerts) easily even after the release of your fourth album Unseen World in January 2021. Especially in your case, I have an image that your servings cannot exist without communication with your masters and princesses (fans). When you were deprived of those opportunities, how did you maintain your motivation?

Saiki (vocals): We’ve had emotional ups and downs in the last two years, but we were more worried about our masters and princesses at first.

Miku Kobato (vocals/guitar): More than about ourselves, we were afraid we might have made them anxious because we cancelled several servings including the Nippon Budokan show.

Saiki: We strongly felt like “Sorry, we want to do it but we can’t!”, so when we released the digital single About Us, our feeling was like “Let’s be strong, let’s make them beam with joy”.

Saiki (vocals)

Kobato: We cheered them up like “Let’s do our best together, po!”, right?

Saiki: Yeah. But since around the second half of last year, our feeling like “We can’t take this anymore!” has shown in our songs, I think (laughs).

Kobato: We kind of took out our stress on songs, or rather, our urge like that showed in them, po. However, it was an advantage of the COVID pandemic that we were able to take enough time for song production, po. Before that, we kept on touring in hectic days, and we were sometimes pressed for deadlines like “We need to record it by that date, po!” But the pandemic partly allowed us to concentrate on song production, po. Since we couldn’t go on a tour, we exchanged data with each other, and had more time to communicate with each other before recording, po. We each bought new equipment and went on increasing what we can do, so we were able to write a wider range of songs and improve our skills, which I think was very meaningful, po.

Miku Kobato (vocals/guitar)

Saiki: Without the pandemic, we couldn’t have stepped that far. Before, we used to leave a lot to Kanami in song production, but now I suppose we’ve reduced her workload.

- So, before, things moved along too fast before you had time to single-mindedly work on your songs or think about them.

Kobato: That’s right, po. It felt like far from pausing, we kept running on and on, po (laughs).

Saiki: So, we were able to put our real-time emotions into the songs we wrote during the pandemic, including this EP.

- The first time I listened to Unseen World, it felt more aggressive than ever to me, in a good sense…

All: (laughs)

Kobato: Sure, you are right, po (laughs).

- The pandemic was frustrating for listeners like me as well, but that album made me feel so refreshed. This EP is even more aggressive, isn’t it?

Saiki: We wanted to make it more aggressive ourselves.

- Were you influenced by the atmosphere of stagnation in the last few years?

Kobato: Yes. Before making the EP, we first thought of its theme, like the second chapter of Band-Maid’s world domination. And in Saiki’s words…

Saiki: I couldn’t get rid of the feeling as if I’m submerged in the sea for a long time and trying to reach for the surface like “I can’t get out! I wanna get out!” I wanted to convey it, and then Unleash!!!!! Came out.

Kobato: She said she wanted to pack the EP with her feeling of being liberated and finally able to breathe, so we thought it would be nice to strongly express the feelings of liberation and explosion as the second chapter of our world domination, po. The word “unleash” fit perfectly for liberation, and we decided to go with it.

Akane (drums): You always come up with a unique expression…

Saiki: You always get what we think, right? (laughs)

Kobato: Because we’ve been together for 10 years, po, right? I think I couldn’t get it in the past as much as now, po (laughs).

- I suppose you understand each other, a little like you each react to how others play in the band ensemble.

Kobato: Now I can predict what my bandmates will think, po.

Misa (bass): Now it doesn’t take me a long time to grasp what kind of bass line Kanami wants when I receive a song from her, I think.

Misa (bass)

Akane: In fact, as for the drum arrangement for songs I receive from Kanami, she used to modify my arrangements again very often in the past, but that’s not the case at all now. I think now I can present what she wants or asks me to make.

Saiki: Kanami’s demos themselves are so complete these days that we can easily share the image of a song, right?

Akane: Because Kanami has made an amazing growth as a composer.

Kanami (guitar): Thanks (laughs).

Saiki: Maybe that has helped us form a clear image like “Let’s do this for a Band-Maid song”.

Kobato: In fact, we had the song Thrill as one of our guidelines in our early days, but that was when we were still exploring various possibilities.

Saiki: Like, we wondered how hard our music should be. The hard rock genre has a really wide range, you know. Especially because we didn’t write all our songs back then. In that sense, I think Unleash is an EP full of our character.

- Your strong will like “We take a big step forward now!” comes across when I listen to this EP. I think it’s harder and heavier than Unseen World.

Saiki: We were like “We don’t need gentleness here” (laughs).

Kobato: It’s not right to be gentle while saying “unleash”, po (laughs). However, I do think it’s so aggressive, po.

Saiki: It’s an intense EP but I believe you can listen to it on repeat.

- Having eight songs almost makes it a full-length album. The size is just right, isn’t it?

Kobato: Like, we can run at full speed just barely for 8 songs. It starts with the instrumental song From now on, so it has some newness too, po.

Saiki: Band-Maid instrumentals have been strongly supported recently, so we were confident enough to make it the first track.

- It’s certainly something new to start with an instrumental while having these two unique singers.

Saiki: Yes, it is (laughs). But actually it was something I always wanted to do.

Akane: In fact, since about 5 years ago.

Saiki: But there wasn’t right timing, and our ability wasn’t ready yet. This time we wrote a perfect song, From now on, and I was like “This has to be definitely the first track”.

- I thought the song was more ear-catching than ever, including the phrases and sounds of each instrument. I suppose it sounds different from your previous instrumentals because you each have fully established own characters.

Akane: That’s right. The guitars, the bass, and the drums are all challenging at a higher level than before.

Akane (drums)

Saiki: You guys play difficult things in it.

Akane: As for the drums, one of the changes is that I don’t just keep the beat. The drums stand out compared to our other instrumentals, so you can enjoy listening to the moves all the way through.

Kobato: One of the reasons why it feels different than before is that it works even with the melody on top of it. So, I think it’s a song where the guitar sings instead of vocalists, po.

- I see. Kanami-san, what kind of image did you have in mind to work on it?

Kanami: Actually, they asked me for a long time to write an instrumental with orchestral tracks. When I wrote Sense, the production side of the TV anime Platinum End asked me to include an orchestral sound, so I studied it very well then. Having that experience, I thought I would be able to write an instrumental with an orchestral sound this time.

Kanami (guitar)

- So, what you tried in Sense is well reflected in From now on.

Kanami: Yes. I feel myself that I have gained a lot of experience points through Sense. However, I’ll forget it if I have studied it just once (laughs), so I think I need to write another song like that at some point in the future.

Saiki: I’m looking forward to it (laughs).

Kanami: Tee hee hee. I’ll work hard on it.

- Then we go on to Track 2 Balance. Its beat is strong like crazy, isn’t it? (laughs)

Akane: It has a very peculiar rhythm divided into three sections of triplets, 16th notes, and 8th notes (laughs).

Saiki: We all struggled with it because of its peculiarities. It’s a song Kanami wrote for my request of shuffle rhythm.

Saiki (vocals)

Kanami: I wrote it not just as a shuffle song but with an intention to make it a little near-futuristic.

- The lyrics are also as powerful as the beat.

Kobato: I wrote them with strong words to keep up with the strong sound, and mainly in English to make them as rhythmical as possible, po.

- They have rhythmically repeated phrases here and there like “More More More”, “Dandan”, and “Run lala run lala”, which I think lead to catchiness.

Kobato: I consciously make them short and clear, po.

Saiki: Also, I asked her to write the beginning of the chorus in Japanese.

Kobato: That’s right, po. Saiki told me so, so I thought it would be better to have the vowel “a” in Japanese at the beginning of the chorus to make it easier to sing, and I chose “daitan”, “daitai”, and so on to have more “a”, po.

- There are a lot of English phrases throughout the EP. How much were you conscious of that?

Kobato: I just thought it would be cooler to sing in English in terms of rhythm, po.

Saiki: But there was another song you wrote lyrics to at the same time and I asked you like “There are too many Japanese words, so increase the English part”, right?

Kobato: Yeah. The other songs had less English, so I tried to find a balance in Balance, po (laughs).

Saiki: You played on words well (laughs).

- (laughs) The two songs From now on and Balance start a good flow from the beginning.

Kobato: You’re right, po. However, I think the start will scare you (laughs).

Saiki: The song really shows the image of a strong woman (laughs).

- You can tell it’s upgraded from Unseen World just by listening to the two songs.

Kobato: I think you can clearly see we have reached a new place a little different from Unseen World, po.

Miku Kobato (vocals/guitar)

- Track 3 is the lead song you made a music video for, Unleash!!!!!.

Saiki: We turned into 2D in the MV (laughs).

Kobato: We wanted to do that for a long time, but it wasn’t easy.

Saiki: We had already done it in our merch and the like, but what we really wanted to do was to move in 2D (laughs). So I was really happy we finally made it happen, but at the same time, I was surprised to find that the song Unleash!!!!! Fit so perfectly with the animation.

- It properly features your performance scene too.

Kobato: We were amazingly reproduced in it, so we were excited ourselves, po, right?

Saiki: They really paid attention to details, such as each of our unique characteristics, when they created it. The song Unleash!!!!! Itself was the last song we wrote for the EP, so I have the impression that everything fit together like puzzle pieces.

Kobato: We were like “We want one main song that would be the title of the EP” and came up with Unleash!!!!!, so we must properly thank Kanami, who wrote it.

Saiki: (To Kanami) Thank you so much!

Kanami: Wh… what? (laughs)

- Kanami-san, what kind of image did you have in mind when you wrote it?

Kanami: They always told me they wanted a song in the lineage of DOMINATION, one of our past songs, and Choose me, which is popular overseas, under the theme of “the sencond chapter of world domination”…

Saiki: In the sense that we wanted a new signature song for Band-Maid, you know.

Kanami: Yeah. So, in my view, I tried to write a song in that lineage.

Kanami (guitar)

Kobato: Moreover, we came up with the idea of making an animated MV for the next EP’s lead song, and that’s how all the puzzle pieces came together, po.

- I thought its imagery was great for those who don’t know about Band-Maid yet, as well as for your masters and princesses overseas, to understand your band well.

Kobato: That’s right, po. Our unique features and characters are drawn in great detail, so our vibe or atmosphere will come across to those who haven’t seen us yet, those who haven’t seen our servings yet.

Akane: I think this MV fits well as our self-introduction, or as the beginning of our second chapter.

- I got the impression that Sense also fit in this flow of the EP.

Kobato: I’m glad to hear that because it’s a solid song that gives us a sense of security, po.

- It has a classical taste in its intensity, which makes it feel a little more gentle.

Saiki: It’s a mature song for us, with strength but also a hint of gentleness.

- Then the intensity goes up again with I’ll.

Kobato: It goes back to the dark side again, though (laughs).

Saiki: Because it’s the darkest song on this EP.

- The hard and heavy ensemble of the rhythm section feels so nice in this song.

Saiki: Yes, the low-pitch sound of this song feels nice.

Akane: The others are mostly up-tempo songs with a 16th-note feel, so in I’ll, I focused on long notes as much as possible and made the sustain longer, and tried to keep supporting the song in the low range.

Akane (drums)

Misa: My bass goes along with the bass drum too, and it doesn’t move a lot phrase-wise, but I was just conscious of making it sound heavy.

- It’s a simple song but the drums and the bass have a strong presence in it.

Misa: We recorded it with a V-shaped EQ, and I think that’s also a big factor.

Misa (bass)

- What point were you conscious of when you wrote the guitars over the rhythm section?

Kanami: I told the two of the rhythm section that I wanted to make it heavier from the demo stage. However, it would feel suffocating to hear if everything is too heavy, so I added tension chords and a little beautiful chords for gorgeousness to keep the balance.

Saiki: So, it’s not just with the crushing feel, and we kept gorgeousness in the melody section. We also put twin vocal exchanges in the vocals, so I feel like “Thank you for waiting, here you are!” to our masters and princesses who have been supporting Band-Maid for many years.

Kanami: After I sent them the first demo of this song, Kobato and Saiki asked me to add a little more twin-vocal feel to it, so I added various things and finished it like this.

- It might be because of the way you two sing, but you are sounding more and more alike, aren’t you?

Saiki: Kobato is so good at imitating me now (laughs).

Kobato: I’m always told so, po (laughs).

Saiki: I always tell her to imitate me in the vocal harmony work, but her voice carries extremely well. So I’m often like “Come a little closer to me, OK?” (laughs)

Kobato: Then, people began to say we sound very much alike, po.

Saiki: I thought we were especially alike in this EP.

Kobato: We are sometimes like “Saiki, isn’t this your voice?” and “No, it’s you, Kobato, right?” when we hear ourselves. Our vocal director also sometimes says “You can’t tell if it’s Kobato or Saiki, right?” so I think some of our masters and princesses might not get it either, po (laughs).

Saiki: It’s of course good for us to have different voices and different characters, but I noticed how good it feels to overlay similar voices when we sang heavy songs on Unseen World. We incorporated that in singing, so I think the song itself has been nicely put together.

- So, your experience with the previous album is well reflected there as well. After I’ll comes the previously released song Corallium. Saiki-san, I’ve heard you tried writing lyrics to it all by yourself for the first time.

Saiki: That’s right. There were lyrics cowritten by the two of us, but it wasn’t like we wrote them shoulder to shoulder.

Kobato: For example, like I receive three lines of text for one line from her and I manage to make it into one line.

Saiki: I used to have her cram my words into lyrics before, but I grew to want to write them on my own. It was when I was beginning to understand how I wanted to sing and what kind of lyrics felt good to me. I had some time to spare because of the COVID pandemic, Kobato was a little busy then, and we had just one song without lyrics, so I was like “OK, I’ll try writing” and wrote them on my own.

- With the experience with Corallium, you wrote lyrics on your own again to the new song HATE? On the EP.

Kobato: After Corallium, the two of us decided to each write lyrics to a demo we receive and pick the better one, po. So, this time, we each wrote lyrics to several songs including I’ll, and the lyrics that better match each song were used, po.

Saiki: HATE? Felt aggressive like “THE Band-Maid song” already from the demo stage, and I just had something that pissed me off right then (laughs), so I expressed my irritation in the lyrics. Also, I simply wanted to include the phrase “I hate you”.

Kanami: It’s a phrase that makes you want to sing (laughs).

Kobato: It’s hard to find any other song where you can shout “I hate you” this many times, po.

Band-Maid

- The repetition at the end of the song feels very nice.

Saiki: The “I hate you” at the very end had some reverb, but we chopped it off at the mixing, to have a stronger “I hate you” feel (laughs).

- Track 7 Influencer has a well-crafted rhythm. I think it’s the most playful song on the EP.

Akane: I didn’t want to have clattering drums in this song, so I decided to keep it simple but intense with the basic three (a bass drum, a snare, and a hi-hat). In addition, I wanted to add dynamics, so I intentionally used a tom beat to make the A-melody [first half of the verse] simple and tight, and used a cymbal beat for the chorus. For the bass solo, I made the bass stand out by using the basic three, based on my experiences at servings. That made the song easier to listen to sound-wise, probably.

- It also feels like a very danceable song.

Akane: In that sense, the song made me realize the importance of the basic three again.

- Even though the EP has a strong sense of unity as a whole, it has a wide variety of songs that are unique and different from each other.

Saiki: I think it’s probably because we have been working on songs for two years and we have more time to spend on each song than before. We wanted to do a lot of different things in our songs, and we were able to put different uniqueness into each song. I guess that’s why each song has a distinct character.

Kobato: We made those songs at different periods, and in the process of refining each song, we did things like the mixing of the ending of HATE? We talked about earlier, by listening to them again, po. Before, we hadn’t had much time to do those things, po. I guess that’s why we were able to add different colors to each song while keeping the unity of the EP, po.

- I think the contents of the EP show each of your progresses well, not only as singers and players but also as songwriters and arrangers.

Kobato: Thanks to Kanami-sensei. She studies so hard, po.

Saiki: You’ve been trying not to listen to rock so much recently, right?

Kanami: Yeah. I used to analyze various songs while listening to them and take notes on what I have noticed, but I found that my songs started to get closer to the songs I had analyzed, so in the last few years, I’ve been just listening to songs almost without paying attention. I avoid getting input on composition from them, but I’d like to study melody sections, so I do listen to some rock songs such as Grammy-nominated songs. I work hard to establish the Band-Maid genre.

- Kobato-san, you have started the solo project Cluppo. Have you learned anything for the band on your extracurricular activity?

Kobato: Yes, I think so, po. For example, I tried some new ways of singing that I can’t do for Band-Maid, and wrote lyrics that I can’t write for Band-Maid for differentiation, and I was able to see Band-Maid objectively through that. I think that’s one reason why I’ve become good at imitating Saiki, po (laughs). Exactly because I tried different ways of singing for Cluppo, I got to know like “Oh, this way of singing sounds like Band-Maid, po!” so it meant a lot to me, po.

Band-Maid

- Considering that, even though you haven’t been able to do in-person servings in the last two years and a half, you also had a great harvest other than in song production.

Kobato: Yes, po. When we did our first online okyu-ji, we got much greater reaction than we had thought, and we realized we could reach people all over the world even if it wasn’t an ordinary serving. There were countries we’ve literally never been to, and the most viewed one was watched from 66 countries, so in that sense, I don’t think it was only negative. Rather, it was a positive experience for us to discover a new way of presenting ourselves, po.

Saiki: We had a lot of good experiences in the two years and a half, thankfully. Also, I realized how many masters and princesses we have through online okyu-ji. I had heard that there were many people overseas supporting us, but that was still vague and I didn’t fully feel it. But we were able to see their reactions through comments, so I was happy like “This many people really exist!” So I felt more strongly like “We can’t stop, we will just move forward and meet their expectations”.

Kobato: Without the COVID pandemic, we wouldn’t have done any online okyu-ji, po, because we were proud like “We are a live band! Servings are everything to us!” It was hard for us not to be able to do in-person servings, but I think that was still a positive experience eventually, po.

Band-Maid

- By the time this interview is released, a month will have passed since your first in-person serving in about two years and a half. After rehabilitation there, you will start a US tour with 13 shows in October that is expected to draw in about 20,000 people in total.

Kobato: This year will go by at the speed we won’t be able to pause on, after we just turn the switch on, po.

- The US tour will kick off at Aftershock Festival in California. You Band-Maid are going to perform on October 9, in a strong lineup including Muse and Bring Me The Horizon.

Saiki: It’s awesome, isn’t it? At first I was skeptical if it was true (laughs).

Kobato: I was like “Aren’t they actually cover bands, po?” (laughs)

Saiki: I’ll be skeptical until we actually arrive there.

- And your other shows will be at big venues as well.

Kobato: Moreover, we didn’t expect to have this many sold-out shows, so I’m literally a little skeptical. You know, you can’t imagine 20,000 people easily, po.

Saiki: The venues are all different from our tour three years ago, and all of them are more than doubled in capacity. It will be our biggest US tour, so we are fully fired up.

Akane: I’ve never been overseas for such a long time, so I’m worried about my physical strength (laughs).

Kobato: We will take the first challenge in three years, po!

Saiki: We will unleash ourselves there with Unleash.

- I hope your tour experience will cheer you up and you will celebrate your 10th anniversary in good shape in 2023.

Kobato: Exactly, po! Our 10th anniversary next year will be important, po.

Saiki: We will kick off the 10th anniversary year at Tokyo Garden Theater on January 9, and I hope we will just move forward from there.

- It might be too early to ask this, but what kind of year do you want to make in 2023?

Saiki: We don’t want to pause ever again, right?

Kobato: We don’t need time to stand still anymore, po. It was a little too long, po, right?

Akane: Yeah.

Saiki: We’ll keep moving forward, so I hope everyone to expect a lot more from us.

Kobato: I hope next year will have more “first time” things for us, po.

Akane: There are still a lot of places in Japan we haven’t been to yet, so I hope we will tour in Japan intensively again.

Saiki: I hope we will go around a lot of places in Japan and overseas in 2023.

Band-Maid

Band-Maid US Tour 2022: 

Sun, October 9: Sacramento, California, US (Aftershock Festival)

Wed, October 12: Neptune, Seattle, Washington, US

Fri, October 14: August Hall, San Francisco, California, US

Sat, October 15: Belasco, Los Angeles, California, US

Mon, October 17: House Of Blues, San Diego, California, US

Wed, October 19: Crescent Ballroom, Phoenix, Arizona, US

Fri, October 21: Echo Music Hall, Dallas, Texas, US [note: upgraded to House of Blues]

Sat, October 22: House of Blues, Houston, Texas, US

Tue, October 25: The Fillmore, Washington D.C., US

Wed, October 26: TLA, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US

Fri, October 28: Irving Plaza, New York City, New York, US

Sat, October 29: Brighton Music Hall, Boston, Massachusetts, US [note: upgraded to Paradise Rock Club]

Sun, October 30: American Dream, East Rutherford, New Jersey, US (additional show)

Tue, November 1: House of Blues, Chicago, Illinois, US (additional show)

Band-Maid Tokyo Garden Theater Okyuji: 

Mon, January 9: Tokyo Garden Theater
