# Band-Maid sum up their US tour that drew in 20,000 people in total: “We want to make our good fortune bloom next year”

**Date:** 2022-12-15  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/zxbhbo/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks_we/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/zxbhbo/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks_we/)  
**Original URL:** [#https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000227807#](#https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000227807#)  

---

Band-Maid went on a US tour with a total of 14 shows, including a festival appearance, from October 9 to November 1. They kept selling out venues and drew in as many as 20,000 people in total on the tour, through which the Japanese-unique rock band has certainly gained further evolution. We glimpsed it at their latest live performance as a special guest for the Guns N’ Roses Japan tour at Saitama Super Arena on November 6, immediately after their return to Japan. Their stage, which condensed the Band-Maid-style intensity, beauty, and diversity into a compact time frame of only 30 minutes, attracted those who had no prior knowledge of the band, and made those who had a distorted prejudice regret for not having listened to them for such a long time. They further raised our expectation for their Tokyo Garden Theater show on January 9, 2023.

As they never stood still during the COVID pandemic even though they weren’t able to do their usual serving (concert) activities, the passage of time from this October to November must have been very meaningful to them. We talked with the five of them to confirm that on a day in November.

- You started your US tour with an appearance at Aftershock Festival in Sacramento on October 9 and continued it until the Chicago show on November 1. How do you feel now if you look back on it?

Akane: We did servings overseas for the first time in a long time, and their enthusiasm was just too awesome! That really made us feel “This is the serving!” and we toured with so much fun for about a month. I felt that what we gain through concerts is so great, and I also realized our growth so much.

Kanami: It had been such a long time that I felt as if I was going abroad for the first time. Like “Are there really our masters and princesses (fans) in the US?” Then I actually went there and got a sense of relief like “Ah, I’m relieved, they are really there!” (laughs) I kind of got a lot of inspirations throughout the tour. I came up with ideas like “Oh, maybe I’ll write a song like this next” on the tour, so it was a lot of fun.

Misa: We hadn’t done a serving where cheering was allowed for a while, you know. So I was moved just by the fact that there was audience in front of us and they were cheering… I was almost crying all through the first half of the first serving (laughs). I was so happy to be between the sound coming from the amp behind me and the voices of the audience in front of me. I thought I wouldn’t like to go back to the situation where cheering was banned, if possible.

Band-Maid at Aftershock Festival

- When you feel such happiness, your drink must taste better.

Misa: That’s right. Moreover, the alcohol over there was so delicious. There were a lot of beers that tasted good (laughs).

- Saiki-san, how was it for you?

Saiki: We tried to keep moving forward even in the COVID pandemic, not to stand still as a band, and in the last one month, we realized, or confirmed, that we had done it properly. I felt my own growth as well as our growth as a band every day. So, I felt that all we had done up to that moment wasn’t a waste and we were rewarded. Also, I strongly felt that music is wonderful and that our daily lives had finally returned to normal. I confirmed again on the tour that this is what I love, and I got answers to my own questions through the tour itself, so I had nothing but good feelings.

Miku Kobato: Somehow they’ve already said everything I wanted to say, though, po (laughs). I was really full of anxiety before I went there, po. We were going abroad for the first time in three years, and it was our first properly touring tour in a while because we did only a limited number of servings on the Pre US Tour in Japan, so I was like “Will it be all right?” and “Will our masters and princesses there really come to see us?”, po. When we actually went there, I felt like I was recovering the sense of touring every day, like “Oh, yeah, I remember this is how a tour goes, po”. That made me realize once again how special the environment where we can interact with our masters and princesses is, po.

- You sold out some of the 13 solo shows very quickly. So you can’t feel fully relieved without actually seeing the venue, even if you receive such information, can you?

Saiki: Right, I can’t believe it without seeing it with my own eyes, kind of.

Miku Kobato: Yeah, I can’t feel relieved only with numbers, po.

Band-Maid at Aftershock Festival

- In Japan, it seems there were a lot of people who got to know about you Band-Maid during the COVID pandemic. Probably there was a similar situation in the US.

Miku Kobato: I felt that, po. Also on this tour, during the MC time, I asked if there were people who came to see us for the first time, po, and a lot of people raised their hands, so I guess many of them got to know about us through live streaming or online okyu-ji, po. I’m sure there were also quite a few people who already knew about us but decided to actually come to an in-person serving after watching an online okyu-ji, po.

- In that sense too, your down-to-earth efforts have paid off, or led to proper results. But at any rate, it’s amazing the first stop of your tour was a large-scale rock festival. I think you performed at Aftershock Festival only for around 30 minutes. How did you feel?

Saiki: We were all a little nervous about starting the tour with a festival. But after we actually performed there, we were like “It was rather good to start it with a festival.” Those 30 minutes made us fully understand the current atmosphere of the US at once.

Misa: Yeah, that’s right.

Saiki: That reached us well, like “Oh, this is what the US is like now.” We members often talked about how good it was to go on the solo tour after experiencing it, as a kind of good preparation for the main part of the tour.

- In fact, cheering was fully allowed over there unlike in Japan, so you were able to grasp how much freedom was back at that moment. Then you started the solo shows based on that.

Misa: Moreover, it had been a really long time since we had performed outdoors. There was an atmosphere that only outdoor concerts can have. And it was just hot.

Miku Kobato: Yeah, it was hot, po. It was so hot I couldn’t believe it was October, po.

Saiki: We had expected a good weather, but honestly, we had underestimated it (laughs).

Miku Kobato: We had underestimated it, po (laughs). None of us expected it would be that hot, to be honest, po.

Misa: And the stage was big and there was a lot of audience. We felt like if we could get through this, we would gain a little confidence, and in fact, we regained confidence just with that stage appearance.

Miku Kobato: It was also fun to be in the atmosphere unique to festivals, po, like, we met a Mexican all-female band called The Warning, and took a picture with Taylor Momsen-san of The Pretty Reckless. We were like “Please take a picture with us!” when we found Taylor-san, po.

Saiki: Yes, we stopped her for that. On the other hand, the girls of The Warning approached us themselves. They knew about us, thankfully.

Miku Kobato: Exactly, po. We talked with them like “Let’s play together someday”, po.

Saiki: They are a Mexican band, and we’d like to go to Mexico again, so it would be fun to tour there with them.

- It would be wonderful if you could invite each other to each other’s country.

Saiki: Yes, exactly. In fact, we talked about something like that, and said it would be interesting to collab on a song. We hadn’t had such a conversation with other bands before, so that was refreshing in itself. I think that was a nice interaction and a good experience.

- Three days after the festival appearance, you started the solo tour with the Seattle show. Is there any particular serving or place out of the 13 shows that left a strong impression on you?

Miku Kobato: As for Misa and me, there were servings on our birthdays, and those were awesome just as expected, po.

Misa at The Belasco

- Misa-san, your birthday was October 15, the day of the Los Angeles show. All we know is that you drank tequilla on stage.

Misa: I’d forgotten that (laughs). I certainly did it.

Miku Kobato: We had another serving in San Francisco the day before, and they were excited already at that point, like her birthday eve party, po. She riled up the audience and drank at that time too, and the next morning, she was like “Maybe I’ll drink some shot.”

Misa: I murmured that (laughs).

Miku Kobato: And then I confirmed her like “Are you sure?” and she answered yes, so I asked our staff members to prepare a shot, po, but it seems they didn’t believe she would really drink it, po. When I said “Please bring a shot to Misa, po” during the MC time at the serving, they were really panicked, po (laughs).

Saiki: And Misa urged Kobato, like “My shot is not ready yet?” (laughs) Somehow people were excited like a carnival, right?

Miku Kobato: Yeah. You know, Misa does an “opening ceremony” (a ceremony where she lets the audience hear the sound of a can of beer she opens) every time in Japan. She did it every time over there too, po, and that made them so excited. They were particularly excited on her birthday, po.

- I think it’s amazing you can get the audience excited with just one sound of “pssh” when she opens a can of beer.

Miku Kobato: It’s certainly something other bands don’t do at their concerts, po.

Misa: Ha ha. I practiced opening a can with a good sound every time I drank a can of beer. I’ve found it sounds better when you open it quickly than slowly.

Saiki: You commit to the sound even to that point (laughs).

Misa: It was a nice birthday. Moreover, the venue that day, called The Belasco, was fantastic like a museum.

Miku Kobato: I heard it’s a very historic building, po.

- There are a lot of venues converted from old theaters or churches in the West.

Miku Kobato: You’re right, po. We can really enjoy the view from the stage in such a venue. That’s another treat unique to overseas tours, po.

Akane: American Dream in New Jersey was an interesting venue. It was a special venue inside of an amusement park or a theme park, not a live music club or a hall, but unexpectedly it was the easiest venue for me to play in. It was good also sound-wise, so I felt you’ll never know until you try.

Saiki: That venue was easy to play in the end partly because, I think, it was a place that was so unknown to all of us including our staff. It was an environment where we totally couldn’t predict what the sound would be like, so our staff prepared it extremely carefully for us. You have a pretty good idea of the sound in usual venues, so you don’t do so much research beforehand, you know. But at that time we had to play with limited equipment in an environment where we didn’t know how it would turn out, and it seems almost no band had played live there before. So the venue side also prepared for it properly, and I think that was one reason why Akane felt it was easy to play there.

Miku Kobato: Also, we couldn’t have time to rehearse that day, po.

Band-Maid at American Dream

- I see, that’s because there were visitors to the amusement park, isn’t it?

Miku Kobato: Exactly, po. We had to prepare in a very short time after they left, so we couldn’t rehearse at all, po.

Saiki: We really appreciated our staff because it was the venue we were the most anxious about. But once we started while wondering “What will happen?”, we were like “Hmm? We can do it!” I thought we gained experience points again there.

- It looks like the venue in Phoenix also had an unusual structure with audience on both sides of the stage.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. It’s not that the stage was low or something, but it’s very long to both sides, it had a low ceiling, and it didn’t have so much depth, po.

Saiki: So people on the second floor were very close to us. In that sense, it was very much like a live music club. There was audience literally on both sides of us, at 180 degrees, which was a little weird as a venue structure. It felt something like Yokohama Bay Hall extended to both sides.

- Your performance environments were different day by day like that. If so, I guess it would be normal to try to be stable by having a fixed setlist at least, but even under such circumstances, it seems you kept experimenting by making minor changes every time. I think it’s amazing you maintained such an aggressive stance.

Saiki: Rather than we wanted to maintain that, we wanted to be flexible as we went on. In fact, before we actually went over there, we had talked about how we should adapt to huge cultural differences we would feel as we go from the west to the east in the vast US, even though we would use the setlists we had at the servings in Japan as a base. In addition, we had some concerns such as whether we would be able to keep up physically, so we decided on some backup songs in advance. However, we didn’t play any of them at all in the end.

- You didn’t need them. That means you were all right physically and your song selection was right, doesn’t it?

Saiki: Yes. You can tell the popularity of a song to some extent by looking at, say, its play count on streaming services, but we wanted to check if the numbers really show the truth, so we put more and more songs in setlists based on those numbers. That said, as we went on trying different songs and challenging ourselves, the setlist became more and more intense or even more Band-Maid-style as a result. Honestly, it felt a little too constrained in Pre US Tour in Japan because cheering was not allowed, you know. So I couldn’t directly feel their excitement in some part. But in the US, all of them really gave it their all, which made me want to make closer and closer communication with them. And all of us had the same feeling. So we were like “We probably can do this, no?” and “We want to see more and more smiles, right?”…

- So, the more servings you did, the more you wanted at servings. And the fact that you didn’t need to play backup songs proves that your prior information was correct, so things went as planned, in a good sense.

Miku Kobato: It was more than we expected, po. There were of course some songs we had thought they would be definitely excited at but turned out to be unexpectedly not so, so we changed them, po. And vice versa, po.

Miku Kobato at House of Blues Dallas

- I see. Kobato-san, as we talked about this a little while ago, you had your birthday on the tour. It was the day of the Dallas show. What was it like that day?

Miku Kobato: Oh, I got surprised over and over that day, po. We also played at the Dallas venue three years ago, but that was the smaller hall and this time we played in the larger hall, which was another happy thing on this tour, po. Then, when I entered the venue, I found a cake with the same design and size as my signature guitar, which was a present from our masters and princesses. I was surprised like “Is this really a cake?” at its high quality like a work of art, po. After that, my bandmates surprised me again with a cake and a message card. On Misa’s birthday, when I went shopping with Akane, we were like “Misa will be happy if we give her a message card, po, right?”, but in my case I thought nothing would happen, po.

Kanami: Oh, did you?

Saiki: That’s impossible (laughs).

Miku Kobato: I thought so, so I was very happy, po. It had been a really long time since I celebrated my birthday with all of our staff members. And then at the serving… On Misa’s birthday, those in the venue held up towels with her name on them, so I was wondering what would happen on my birthday… We talked about this in the audio commentary on the Shibuya Public Hall live DVD, but I’ve been teased for a long time about my face when I shout “Say!” in Play, such as making a GIF of that scene. Someone drew it in the realistic style and printed it on towels in the wood printing style, and they started hanging up the towels during the Omajinai Time…

Saiki: The buzz when they started holding up the towels was nice!

Miku Kobato: Yeah, they didn’t start holding up all at once but they held up one by one while murmuring (laughs).

Saiki: More and more Kobato faces came into my sight (laughs).

Miku Kobato: At first I didn’t even recognize it’s my face, and when some people started holding up the towels, I thought “What? They started holding up something”, po. But as more and more towels came out, I noticed it was my face. It was such a surreal scene, po. I thought it was a prank, po (laughs).

Saiki: Kobato’s reaction was funny. Like, their surprise was a big success (laughs).

Miku Kobato: I was of course happy, po, but I felt like they teased me more than they celebrated, so I wasn’t sure if I should be just happy, po (laughs).

- Just be happy about that (laughs). However, you must be all careful about surprises when you have your birthdays overseas from now on. Now, I think the hardest part of touring the US is movement, after all. Because your bus rides get unusually long.

Miku Kobato: Oh, that’s absolutely true, po.

Saiki: But this time, our tour bus was really good.

Miku Kobato: It was a great bus, po. It was so much fun and we were never bored, po. We moved around in a van before, po, but it was our first time moving around only on a bus and sleeping together on the bus since the size of our tours became bigger, so it was like a “big bus trip” and we had a lot of fun for a month, po. We all brought Japanese food and cooked rice in the microwave on the bus. We had fun doing those things, so it was a comfortable trip, po.

Saiki: Yeah, it was a nice bus. I’m not complaining about the environment three years ago here (laughs), but this time it was much better than that, so I was like “I’m totally fine with this”. I got tired of course, but it’s not that I was worn out but I felt pleasantly tired.

Akane: Yes, the bus was comfortable. Above all, I was able to get enough sleep. And the quality of my sleep was good, so I kept up physically until the end of the tour, and I realized again how important sleep is. The quality of the mattress was good too (laughs).

Kanami: Three years ago or so, Akane and me used to tape our hands and so on at servings. It was physically hard to move around especially for Akane. But this time, we didn’t have to do that at all, and in fact, after returning to Japan, she was rather the most energetic among the five of us.

Miku Kobato: Akane was certainly energetic, po.

Akane: I was literally energetic all the way through (laughs).

Kanami: She didn’t look tired at all, so we were saying it was thanks to the comfort of the bus.

Miku Kobato: It was also probably good we were able to sleep properly in the night time, po. We took a shower after a serving, and moved while sleeping on the bus. I think it was pretty important that we were able to sleep all through the night. On the past overseas tours, we often took a short nap and left for the next destination at 5 in the morning or took a rest only for 3 hours and then left, but this time we had a good sleep in the night, which made a big difference, po.

- So what was important is not only your sleeping hours but also the fact that you were able to work in the daytime and sleep in the night in the environment with several different time zones within a country. That said, even though you returned to Japan in good health, I was surprised you would perform at Saitama Super Arena right after that!

Saiki: That was insane, wasn’t it? That was literally right after the return to Japan.

Miku Kobato: Masuda-san, I looked for you in the audience, po, because I knew you were coming to see us via Twitter.

- Actually, I was at the center in the 6th row.

Saiki: Whaat?! I saw you wear a green Band-Maid T-shirt on Twitter, so I looked for you too, but I couldn’t find you.

Band-Maid at Saitama Super Arena

- In large arenas, even the first row is pretty distant from the stage, and actually it’s more difficult to see the front rows than the back rows, which might be the reason.

Saiki: I really thought so. It was our first time playing in an arena, and I realized how far the first row was from the stage.

- The Tokyo Garden Theater show in January will be your biggest serving ever, but it’s quite interesting you had the opportunity to perform in a bigger venue than that before that.

Miku Kobato: That’s something that doesn’t happen often, po. But for us, it felt like our US tour ended that day, po. Like, it was on our way home from the US tour. It was too big in scale to say that, though, po.

Saiki: It wasn’t on our way home, right? (laughs) However, it certainly felt like a part of the US tour.

Miku Kobato: It was also very good for us that we had 30 minutes instead of an hour or so, po.

- Just like your 30-minute performance at Aftershock Festival was the prologue of your US tour, your 30-minute performance at the Guns N’ Roses concert was something like the epilogue.

Miku Kobato: You’re right, po. That was a very smooth series of events, po.

- However, in the case of rock festivals, you are sure there are fans of your own even though the audience is diverse, but in the case of the GNR concert, you had to play in the environment where most of the audience were GNR fans, partly because your appearance was decided rather suddenly. In such a situation, generally you are tempted to play only uptempo songs to attract audience, but you played Manners and Daydreaming among others, which was bold and in fact left a great impression on me. I heard some GNR fans around me say the same thing.

Saiki: That’s really good news. You know, we played various songs in the US while changing setlists. Through that experience, all of us have improved our ability to predict or guess, like “They will probably love this song there” or “This song seems to be popular there”. Actually we decided the setlist of the GNR day when we were in the US. We were like “GNR fans must love ballads too” and selected Daydreaming, so I’m glad to hear that.

- So you are conscious of different things than when you perform at metal festivals, aren’t you?

Saiki: Yes, exactly. When we played at Download Japan, we had an all-out attack setlist, like “We’ll hit it and quit it!” (laughs)

- You must have been playing while thinking “Come on in right now!” that day.

Saiki: Yeah. While thinking “You guys are missing a chance!”

Miku Kobato: In that sense, it was the opposite at the GNR show, po, right? We expected there wouldn’t be a lot of audience because we were going to play two hours before GNR.

Saiki: We also heard they would stand in a long line for merch. We were like “Many of you probably can’t see us, but thank you, we will experience an arena for the first time!” (laughs)

Misa: It’s true there wasn’t a lot of audience yet and many of them were not our fans, but I was confident because of the US tour experience. My heart would have skipped a beat if I had been my shy self in the past (laughs). I would have felt insecure, like “Will they listen to our music?” But in reality I had gained a full confidence, so I was bold on stage like “Hey, guys, are you listening?!” and I had room in my heart.

Saiki: I think that’s what all of us felt. We were all relaxed.

Misa: In fact, I was confident enough to think we might have done our best serving so far.

- It will lead nicely to the January show. And what are you planning for the Garden Theatre serving that kicks off the year 2023?

Misa: I hope it will be an unforgettable experience for everyone who comes to see us. As for myself, I literally just would like to have fun as usual. It must feel so nice if I can play as usual in a big place like that.

Akane: Now that I have finished the overseas tour and played as a supporting act at the GNR show, I’m in invincible mode myself.

Kanami: Awesome!

Akane: I feel like I’m playing the best drums right now myself. I’m glad I can celebrate our 10th anniversary with this feeling. It will be an exciting way to kick off the year of our 10th anniversary, and I’m really looking forward to showing my performance there, which I think is at the best state in my life as a drummer. I’d like to keep growing more and more.

Kanami: I also think it would be nice if we could play a new song at the Garden Theater, so I’ll do my best to show how we’ve become able to play such a song through the US tour experience. I think we’ve grown a lot on the US tour in terms of the groove of the band as a whole, the matching of sounds, and the connection among us, so I hope to be able to show that at the Garden Theater.

- Those words indicate your band is in very good condition. That’s just promising.

Saiki: Every time we Band-Maid go overseas, we grow stronger both physically and mentally and come back (laughs). This time too, we were touring while feeling all of us literally grew and improved as a band. That was so nice, and we had the pleasure of standing on the same stage as GNR with that nice feeling. Actually, we had a section like a Japanese language class on stage at every show on the US tour…

Miku Kobato: That was fun, po!

Saiki: And at the last show in Chicago, I thought about what phrase to teach, and finally decided on “We have luck”. Like, “We have luck”, “You have luck”. I think it’s really a miracle we Band-Maid have finished the US tour well this time. That’s why I thought “We have luck”.

Kanami: Yeah, we have luck.

Miku Kobato: We didn’t really think we would finish it safely, po, right? We were often saying something might happen somewhere.

Saiki: Yeah. We didn’t have such a problem, and we members didn’t get sick at all and we were basically all healthy, so I decided on “We have luck”. And our appearance on the GNR show was also “We have luck”, and our 10th anniversary will come in 2023, so I really think “We have luck”. Moreover, I really want to make our good fortune bloom and show it off next year. It’s really a big deal to do a band for 10 years, and I think it’s wonderful, or miraculous, because it’s a difficult thing to continue a band. But we are about to reach our 10th anniversary like this, and we’ll be able to show our 10th-anniversary celebration serving to everyone, as the COVID pandemic is gradually ending. So, about that…

Akane: We have luck (laughs).

Band-Maid

- The fact that you wanted to say that phrase at the tour final show in Chicago seems symbolic in itself. You would hate it if the very last phrase had been “I’m not sure, though” or something.

Miku Kobato: You’re right, po (laughs).

Saiki: So, I hope you all will see us Band-Maid literally on a roll and treasure memories of what we are now, without missing the chance.

Miku Kobato: I agree, po. Even though we haven’t been able to tour Japan properly yet, we were able to tour overseas well, and what’s more, we experienced the environment where cheering was allowed for the first time in a while… I think we’ll be able to do a great serving because we’ve gone through such a tour, po. In that sense, I think we have luck, po. I think our experience on the US tour itself will have a positive effect on the 10th-anniversary serving in Japan. So I really would like to give, or show, our masters and princesses in Japan the power that we’ve brought back from the overseas servings. I hope we can make it a big start like “We’ll start the year of our 10th anniversary!”, “This is what we are now!”, and “Let’s make the 10th anniversary more exciting together!”, po.

- I hope it will be a good celebration party to kick off the year.

Miku Kobato: Yes, that’s right, po. I think it will be really a celebration party, po. It’s a rare opportunity to celebrate the New Year and to do a serving at the same time, and what’s more, it’s the year of our 10th anniversary. We will definitely make it a success and make you all think “This year is going to be fantastic!”, po!
