# Band-Maid proceed the second chapter of their world domination with the new song Unleash!!!!!

**Date:** 2022-08-10  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/wskpvp/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/wskpvp/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/)  
**Original URL:** [https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000223187](https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000223187)  

---

August 10 will see the digital release of Band-Maid’s new song Unleash!!!!!. The EP Unleash, which includes this latest killer tune, will be released on September 21. Moreover, the long-awaited domestic tour, which is, so to speak, a prelude to the US tour this fall, is scheduled to start on August 17, and they will perform as the only Japanese musicians at Download Japan 2022 on August 14.

As their lives are returning to normal, we interviewed Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals), Saiki (vocals), and Kanami (guitar) online. We hope this interview will convey their real feelings unique to this moment.

- You have been always writing songs even during the COVID pandemic. When did you write the songs on the EP, including the digital single Unleash!!!!!?

Miku Kobato: Each song had a pretty different production period, and as a whole, we’ve chosen songs that fit Unleash from songs we’ve recorded in the last two years or so and put them into the EP, po. We’ve been writing a lot of songs since the release of Unseen World, including About Us and Sense, so we carefully selected them from there, po.

Kanami: As for Unleash!!!!!, Saiki asked me to write a song with a theme of “the second round of world domination”, so I wrote it with that image in mind… (With an anxious look) What do you think? Is this song what you had in mind?

Saiki: I think it’s exactly what I had in mind (laughs).

Kanami: Ah, I’m relieved! (smiles)

Saiki: We’ve been trying to express our big goal of world domination through our sound since World Domination (2018), but after we entered the COVID pandemic, we weren’t able to do in-person servings (Band-Maid concerts), so our frustrations grew, and being unable to see others made us feel as if time had stopped. We kind of wanted to release those frustrations.

- The English word “unleash” means to release. So does it also mean to unleash those feelings?

Saiki: Yes. At the same time, when we talked about what kind of theme we should go with for the next release, we realized again that there are so many people in Japan and overseas who got to know about us during the pandemic in the last two years. So I told her I wanted a song like “Let’s go on to the second chapter, or the second round, of world domination!”

Kanami: There was a song called DOMINATION in World Domination, and it was like the first round on the world domination theme, so I took Saiki’s words to mean she wanted a new signature song following it. It was kind of difficult to actually get that into shape, and I was wondering like “Will this be OK?” but when I proposed this song to the other members, I was glad they were all happy with it.

- I’m sure you had a desire to be released from this stagnant situation, and that somewhat coincided with the timing of your new start.

Saiki: That’s exactly how it was. Actually, Unleash!!!!! is the newest song on the EP.

Miku Kobato: Completing this song felt like the final puzzle piece fell into place, po. As soon as we completed it, we were like “Let’s make it the title song”, po.

Saiki

- We would like to have another interview with you about the EP in detail. I feel both a newness and a very natural progression from Unseen World in it.

Kanami: As Kobato said a little while ago, this time we selected from songs we have recorded in the last two years, and some of them are songs we wrote while feeling they would be a new taste for Band-Maid. There are quite a few songs like that, as well as many songs in the Band-Maid style so far, so the EP will make you feel like “Oh, Band-Maid also play songs like this”.

- It seems Unleash!!!!! will be the gateway to your new possibilities. What do you think is the highlight of the song?

Miku Kobato: Let me see. It has so many highlights, and each sound kind of insists its existence, which is in common with the vibe of DOMINATION, po. It’s as unique as DOMINATION, which was also a song full of highlights, po. More specifically speaking, I think the most impressive part is probably the beginning, po, where Saiki’s voice starts with falsetto. That way of starting a song is something we haven’t done in Band-Maid songs so far, and I think it’s the most distinctive part, po.

- Certainly, that beginning of the song is a strong hook. Kanami-san, did you plan to put the hook at the beginning when you started writing the song?

Kanami: Personally I didn’t imagine that way of singing at all, actually. Of course I wanted to have a hook at the beginning of the vocal melody, but when I heard Saiki sing like that, I was like “Wow, that’s cool! I didn’t expect that!” When I write a song, I often write the vocal melody in my DAW while humming without realizing it, and in my case I end up using falsetto there without realizing it, but I wasn’t aware the pitch was high at all. So I found it interesting, like “Oh, it becomes such a hooky falsetto if Saiki sings it!” This time, that part ended up having pretty high notes, but when I sent the song to Saiki, she just replied “Yes, I understand” without complaining, so I thought “Uh-huh, the notes are just fine for her”. However, later, she was like “I had a hard time singing it because the notes were pretty high”… and I was like “Oh, sorry!” (laughs)

Saiki: At first, when I received the demo, I thought “It seems higher than usual, but I guess it’s actually not.” Then I tried to record demo vocals at home, and I was like “Hmm? Isn’t something wrong?” (laughs)

Miku Kobato: I asked you if it’s too high, when I was writing lyrics, po, right?

Saiki: Yeah. You were like “Can you sing it normally? Are you fine with it?” I probably answered like “But I think she wants me to sing this.” In fact, I worked on it with that feeling (laughs).

Kanami: (Feeling sorry for her) Thank you so much (laughs).

Saiki: But after the recording, I told her “Give me a break, I can’t sing any higher than this” (laughs).

Miku Kobato: She said “Don’t think I can do it easily again”, po, right?

Kanami: Yeah, exactly! (laughs)

Saiki: In fact, it’s not a voice I can easily put on.

- Like, only this time you forgive her (laughs). However, Saiki-san, don’t you feel you came up with something different than before thanks to this vocal melody?

Saiki: That’s right. It was a challenge for me because it’s a little higher than my favorite vocal range. I was wondering what my voice would be like, so I talked a lot about it with an engineer at the recording, and tried many different singing patterns while practicing. But as a result, I feel I’ve gotten a new repertoire again. Honestly, I don’t really want to increase my repertoires anymore (laughs). However, I think it was a good experience, and I wanted to meet the expectation if any.

Kanami: (Clapping hands) You are so fantastic!

- But, like, you will be in trouble if there are too many notes of that pitch.

Saiki: Yes. It’s OK at recordings, but it’s pretty difficult at servings, and in fact I told her so.

Miku Kobato: An ordinary person probably can’t sing through all the songs on this EP, po. If you were to do a serving in this song order, your throat would die, po.

Saiki: Yeah. It’s pretty tough.

Kanami: I see…

Saiki: Well, it was fun, though.

Kanami: The difference of high and low notes is pretty big between the songs.

Saiki: That’s also true, but I thought Kanami herself really became a rock ’n’ roll person during the COVID pandemic (laughs). Like, she was aggressive.

Miku Kobato: We were like “She must have frustrations”, po (laughs).

Kanami: Ah, that’s probably true.

Saiki: So I got aggressive there too. I didn’t really want to go with a soft feel in the first place, though.

Band-Maid

- That probably means your frustrations exploded while the COVID pandemic prevented you from doing the activities you were supposed to do. Unleash!!!!! will be the song that symbolizes your new beginning, and in fact, you will start concert activities immediately after its release.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. We are rehearsing for that these days, po.

- Moreover, you are scheduled to perform at Download Japan 2022 before starting your own servings.

Saiki: That’s right. We didn’t expect we’ll be like “Long time no see” at a festival. Even more, the festival is Download Japan! (laughs)

- You are the only Japanese musicians to perform at Download Japan, though as an opening act.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. I was surprised, po.

Saiki: When I heard about that, I thought “What the heck is that?!” (laughs)

Miku Kobato: I was like “There will be other bands like us, no?”, po, but I was surprised it turned out we are truly the only Japanese musicians, po.

Saiki: We’ve been always conscious of what we can convey only in servings and always focusing on servings above all, but we’ve been unable to do in-person servings for this long like nothing before, and we haven’t sung or played in front of people for around two years and a half. So I feel naturally like “Will we be OK?”

Kanami: My goodness!

Saiki: Um, no, I’m very excited, and not depressed at all. But I feel like I’m only half confident. A while ago, I think I was just confident, but now, I’m a little anxious, to be honest.

Kanami: You’re so cute!

Saiki: Huh? Why? (laughs)

Miku Kobato: I wonder which point she thought was cute, po? Probably, everything Saiki says is cute to Kanami, po (laughs).

Kanami: Well, that’s not true, but we are certainly nervous. Moreover, we’ve prepared a setlist for Download Japan that inevitably makes us nervous. It’s an extremely aggressive setlist, like “Whoa, you play this first?”

Saiki: Sorry about that (laughs). But it’s a setlist I’ve wanted to do for a long time. We try what I’ve wanted to do for a long time but never been able to do, for the first time at Download Japan. Like, this is a good opportunity do go all bold.

Kanami: I knew you’re totally confident, right?!

Saiki: Hey, I told you I’m only half confident (laughs).

Miku Kobato

- You look half anxious and half bold, but you might be super-bold by ordinary standards.

Saiki: Ha ha ha! Is that so?

Miku Kobato: However, somehow Saiki is a little nervous, unlike usual, po.

Saiki: Yeah. Just imagining it makes me nervous.

Miku Kobato: I understand that, po. We’ve been streaming servings, po, but seeing them in person will make us feel completely differently. As for live streaming, at first we felt a tense atmosphere we had never experienced before, but we got used to it through several occasions. Now that we are already used to it, I feel as if I would meet them for the first time, at our first in-person serving in a while, po. It feels a little like when we went overseas for the first time.

Kanami: In addition, you know, we Band-Maid love surprises. The setlist at Download Japan will have an unexpected surprise.

Saiki: Our own servings will have different surprises, naturally.

- So, you want us to come and see you at both places? (laughs)

Saiki: That’s right! Like, make sure to come and see us!

- Saiki-san, it occured to me that when you play Unleash!!!!! live, you have to be careful when you start singing it, just like Different, don’t you?

Saiki: You’re right. Just like Different, Unleash!!!!! doesn’t have an intro, and it’s pretty fast-tempo, you know. Being fast-tempo means the cue to start singing goes by quickly (laughs). Actually, I’ve once failed to start singing in Different.

- Yes, I remember that.

Miku Kobato: Whoa, you remember that, po (laughs).

Saiki: You’re great as usual (laughs). So, the same thing might happen to Unleash!!!!!.

Miku Kobato: That’s no-no, po (laughs). I would feel lonely without you.

Saiki: That’s all right, Akane will be there.

Miku Kobato: Oh, I see, Akane will be playing the drums with me… No, no, that’s not the point, po! (laughs)

Saiki: Ha ha ha! You’re right.

Kanami: Anyway, I’m really looking forward to playing Unleash!!!!! at servings.

- You have an overseas tour coming up in October, and you’ve already sold out many of the shows.

Miku Kobato, Saiki, Kanami: (clap hands through the screen)

Miku Kobato: All I can say is “Thank you very much!”, po. We didn’t expect this many shows to be sold out this soon ourselves, po.

Saiki: I’m really surprised.

Miku Kobato: Rather, I even wonder if it’s true. This US tour will draw in 20,000 people in total, and I can’t really picture that number of people, like “What does 20,000 people look like?” so I’m really nervous, po. It’s not someone else’s business, but I don’t really feel it’s about us without actually going there, po. Like, “I heard there will be 20,000 people” (laughs).

Kanami

- Moreover, the first show of the tour is Aftershock, an extremely large festival.

Saiki: That’s right. In fact, it will be our first time performing in an overseas festival. We’ve performed in an online festival, but this time we will actually feel the atmosphere of an overseas festival for the first time… It still feels like it’s about someone else. We are preparing for it, of course, but I still don’t really feel it at all. Moreover, the scale of overseas festivals is awesome, you know. The number of performers and the like make me think everything will be different from festivals in Japan. I’m looking forward to seeing what kind of inspirations we will get and what we will be able to absorb there.

Kanami: I’m naturally nervous about the overseas tour, and more than anything, I just want to make it from the start to the goal safely. I want to reach the finish line without any problems, without cancellations or anything in the middle. However, honestly, we’ll be doing a lot of things for the first time in a while, not only touring, so everything makes us nervous. Today, I’m interviewed for the first time in a while, and I feel like my words don’t come out well.

- Don’t worry. You don’t sound like that at all.

Kanami: Ah, thank goodness! (shows an expression of relief)

- In fact, whether it’s a concert or an interview, it’s not a bad thing to approach your familiar activities with fresh feelings, and the song Unleash!!!!!, which is the starting point of your new activities, will become more important. I’m looking forward to seeing how your next plan of world domination will proceed from now on.

Miku Kobato: Thank you very much, po! But above all, we have to focus on safety, po.

Saiki: Absolutely. We will do our best to go to all the stops properly. This is our biggest overseas tour to date, so we want to make it to all the stops.

- In Japan, we are still required to always wear masks and not allowed to speak out loud, but if possible, we want to sing along, even with masks on, don’t we? In fact, when you play Unleash!!!!!, I wish we could sing the part “Dan! Dan! Di, di, dan! Dan!” at least.

Saiki: I hope you will do it there, though it might be still impossible.

Miku Kobato: We’ll probably think so as far as the new song is concerned, po. We relied on our masters and princesses’ comments at online okyu-ji, but we won’t have them at in-person servings. If you’re not even allowed to shout, gestures will be important, po (laughs).

Saiki: I want you to move your body a lot. Like, raise your arms, higher than your shoulders (laughs).

Miku Kobato: I would love it if those with frozen shoulder could do it as a kind of rehabilitation, po (laughs).

Saiki: Yeah. It might be good if we all do a warm-up exercise together first.

Kanami: Wow, I’m even more excited! (laughs)
