# Band-Maid stand against a mysterious “black fog” (2022-08-10)

**Date:** 2022-08-10  
**Publication:** Natalie  
**Interviewer:**   **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/wkya9c/translation_article_on_natalie_bandmaid_stand/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/wkya9c/translation_article_on_natalie_bandmaid_stand/)  
**Original URL:** [https://natalie.mu/music/news/488974](https://natalie.mu/music/news/488974)  

---

Unleash!!!!!, a song from Band-Maid’s new EP Unleash to be released on September 21, was released in advance today, August 10. The MV is composed of an animated story in which the band members stand against a mysterious “black fog” that has suddenly appeared, and live action scenes. A new promotion photo has been also released along with the MV. The photo shows them in new maid outfits standing in the wilderness, looking into the distance with strong eyes.

They are running a play count campaign on the advanced release of Unleash!!!!! on each streaming service.

Miku Kobato’s comment: 

I’ve been excited about and looking forward to seeing us as animated characters in the MV ever since it was decided, po! I’m glad we’ve become such fantastic characters properly reflecting our personalities each, po!! I’m excited about presenting the video to you all, because I believe the combination of animation and live action wonderfully shows our further evolution from the past to the future toward world domination, po.

[Edit]

Article on Pony Canyon News

The Unleash!!!!! MV plot: 

A mysterious “black fog” suddenly appears, and it separates and isolates people in the world. Band-Maid are no exception, and each of them is separated and trapped by the fog, unable to do servings with their masters and princesses.

Band-Maid, with the goal of “world domination”, led by Miku Kobato, use their performance power to blow away the depressing “black fog” and release themselves. However, the fog is so strong that it traps the members more strongly again in separated and closed spaces.

However, Band-Maid, who never give up in the midst of the despair, give their performances, which begin to connect and convey in a new way to many masters and princesses who are separated. Band-Maid get new strength, get powered up, break through the closed spaces, and go into the space. They stand against the “black fog” with the ultimate weapon Band-Maid Bazooka, which combines masters and princesses’ power and Band-Maid’s power.
