# A super-rich, aggressive work that marks a perfect start to the second chapter of their world domination.

**Date:** 2022-09-27  
**Publication:** VanityMix  
**Interviewer:** Ryosuke Arakane  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/xsnblk/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_vanitymix/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/xsnblk/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_vanitymix/)  
**Original URL:** [https://www.vanitymix.jp/music/band-maid-6/](https://www.vanitymix.jp/music/band-maid-6/)  

---

Band-Maid’s EP Unleash with eight songs is just amazing. All the songs have single-release quality and will launch a live-oriented all-out attack on you. It may be a reaction to the situation where the band wasn’t able to do in-person servings (concerts) due to the COVID pandemic. The tunes that blow off their frustrations are filled with tremendous heat and challenging spirits. This piece of work is so well finished that it can be seen as Band-Maid’s new name card. We interviewed the five members, namely Miku Kobato, Saiki, Kanami, Akane, and Misa, about the tour-de-force EP.

- Before we talk about the EP, this is about the MV Unleash!!!!!. I was amazed by the speed of overseas YouTubers who were streaming live just after its release.

Kobato: I’m surprised many people stream live at the moment of a release these days, po. There were such people at the release of Sense, but there were even more this time, po.

- So all of you check them out (laughs).

Kobato: Of course we watch them, po!

Saiki: They make us happy, right? We always enjoy them.

Kobato: Some people stop the song in the middle of their reaction videos and shout out, po. Some people read so deeply into it, to the point we don’t even think of, po!

- Yes. You have just completed the EP with eight songs including Unleash!!!!!. I had the pleasure of listening to it, and I found it incredibly rich, almost with the density of a full-length album!

Saiki: We packed a lot in it. We ourselves were like “Is this really an EP?” (laughs).

Kobato: It’s high-energy, and I think its contents are as rich as an album, po.

- Each and every song has a different vector with new challenges, but all of them are firmly dyed in the Band-Maid hue.

Kanami: I studied orchestral tracks when I wrote Sense, and I took this opportunity to write the instrumental From now on. Then we decided to include the instrumental in this EP… and it’s the first song, so I think we instrumentalists also stand out. I think you can feel our newness at the very beginning.

Saiki: As Kanami has just said, we had wanted to release a work that starts with an instrumental for a long time.

- Oh, was that so?

Saiki: We finally made it happen at the right moment. Many of the songs are refined versions of past Band-Maid songs, and I think we have created a work for the second chapter of our world domination.

Misa: We have gathered unique songs again and our musical range has expanded, but I think we can say all of them are in the Band-Maid genre. I moved bass lines so excessively in the previous album…

Saiki: Excessively…? (laughs)

Kobato: That wasn’t excessive at all, po! That was good in its own way, po!

Saiki: You should just say “so much”.

- You are lectured so much… (laughs)

Misa: I was very conscious of making phrases ear-catching this time, like “Eighth notes probably sound better than sixteenth notes”. The previous album was more difficult, but I was more particular about bass lines in this work.

Akane: The first song is an instrumental, which shows our determination, and I believe it will come across to listeners. Also, it feels like the eight songs fly by in a moment, so I listen to it all the way through over and over myself.

Kobato: In the past, we also included medium-tempo songs with a gentle feel, but this time, I think it’s the first collection in a while of only intense, heavy, and aggressive songs with the “go, go, go” atmosphere. This EP is filled with our feeling of “We will start again from here!”, po.

- All the songs on this work are like top-scoring strikers, aren’t they?

Kobato: That’s right, po! All the songs go for the goal, po (laughs).

- What’s the reason why they have become so aggressive?

Saiki: Maybe partly because it’s an EP. An album would need a storyline, but an EP can be organized only with aggressive songs. Also because our frustrations had built up, maybe…? (laughs)

- Ah, was that a major factor too?

Kanami: Yes, probably because of our frustrations.

Saiki: I felt that especially in Kanami (laughs). She kept sending me demos, and when I listened to them, I was like “What? Is she irritated?” Like “Isn’t this extremely aggressive?” (laughs)

Kanami: I couldn’t go out for two years… so certainly I had frustrations (laughs). If I’m told to write a gentle song, I’ll do it, but this time I ended up writing a little intense songs. It’s not that I took it out on songs, though… (laughs)

Kobato: Ha ha ha.

Saiki: Anyway we had a strong desire to do servings, right? That’s probably why we made a lot of songs that would stand out at servings.

- Going back to the previous topic, Saiki-san, did you want to make a work that starts with an instrumental for long?

Saiki: Yes. I also like foreign musicians, and there are a lot of hip-hop or R&B albums that start with an instrumental, and I’ve always thought they are cool. I started saying that five years ago or so. And that suddenly came true.

- There are not many works that start with a complete instrumental like this even in the metal genre, so it gave me a great impact.

Saiki: I think so. I thought what we are now can do it. Our instrumental songs are popular both overseas and in Japan.

Kobato: There was a great response when we included an instrumental song as a bonus for the previous album, po.

Saiki: They are popular, and above all we had confidence in it, so we decided to put it as the first song.

Akane: The song starts off with the tutti section, which I think is so Band-Maid.

Kanami: I added ear-catching phrases also on the guitar, but it was hard to memorize them because there are so many developments in the song (laughs).

Misa: My image of this song is that the guitars and the drums are busy, so I made my bass simple other than the bass solo. I wrote the solo on the keyboard to make it a sad-feeling phrase.

- It will definitely stand out if you play it as the first song at a serving! Personally I guess you will play it at Download Japan 2022.

Kobato: Please don’t miss it. Starting a serving with an instrumental is something we wanted to do for a long time, po. We once played an instrumental in our early days, but that was still too early for us back then, po… (laughs) But I think we can do it now.

Saiki: The guess was correct (laughs).

Kobato: We will have done it already by the time this article is out, po. (Note: They played From now on as the first song at Download Japan 2022.)

- Balance is a rhythm-oriented song that I think is quite difficult, isn’t it?

Akane: The rhythm changes in each section, and I’ve never played something that changes this much before.

Kanami: I was asked for a shuffle rhythm song, and I wanted to write a song that would become popular in the near future, or in the long run. That’s why I included some experimental elements in it, like Misa and I play triplets in the chorus while the drums keep eighth notes.

Saiki: I think that matches well with your intention.

Akane: When I played it, I was conscious of the eighth notes that go with the triplets while keeping balance, which is why the title of the song is “Balance”!

All: Ha ha ha.

Saiki: That’s particularly a song we can create only now. I think we couldn’t have created it at all before.

Akane: Because we didn’t understand notes so well.

Kanami: Now all of us understand them and play. However, we haven’t played it tightly together as a band yet, so it’s still difficult to improve the groove of the song. We need more practice for it.

Misa: I had a hard time playing the chorus. I found myself ending up matching it to the drums.

- Wasn’t it hard to sing it too?

Saiki: I practiced it extremely a lot. In addition, I’m not good at shuffle rhythm. I also had a hard time with the chorus where high notes keep coming.

Kobato: When we checked the demo, I was like “Saiki, isn’t the chorus too high, po? Are you OK with it?”

Saiki: Balance and Influencer were challenges for me because of high notes.

- I think Influencer is also a difficult song with a unique vocal melody.

Saiki: That’s right. Because of the high notes, I told her never to start with the vowel “i” or “u” (laughs).

Kanami: I also had servings in mind, so I wrote its developments including the longer bass solo, thinking like “It will be nice if Misa gets the spotlight”.

Saiki: We each have highlights and points to pay attention to in this song, just like the insrumental song.

- And I’ll is one of the heaviest and darkest tunes on this work. I think overseas fans will love it.

Saiki: I asked Kanami for a low-pitch song with a little scary vibe.

Kanami: However, it wouldn’t sound like Band-Maid if it were too dark.

Saiki: I wanted to have more heavy songs in the Band-Maid catalog. Also, we had songs with twin vocals in our early days, and I wanted to show that again, so we added an exchange between me and Kobato.

- HATE?, the last song, is a straightforward tune, isn’t it?

Kanami: That’s right! (laughs) Actually I wrote this song two years ago, and I thought it would fit well in this EP. The arrangement is different from two years ago though, because Akane said she wanted to incorporate techniques she can do now.

Akane: There was a time when I got into blast beat, and that’s when I was practicing the basics during the stay-at-home period of the COVID pandemic. Then, I told Kanami my blast beat got faster, and she incorporated it this time (laughs).

Kanami: This is a little off topic but I’ve been trying not to listen to rock bands recently. I get too influenced by them. Before, I used to analyze them and write down riffs and chords in my notebook, though. Now, I try not to listen to rhythms or chords so much… I often do listen to melodies and ornaments, though. I’m doing my best so that they won’t say “It’s similar to some other song”. I still have to keep pursuing to establish the Band-Maid genre.

- Saiki-san, HATE? is another song you wrote lyrics to, following Corallium. It’s really so you once again.

Saiki: Right, it’s straightforward (laughs). There were a lot of news about affairs during the pandemic, and I was disgusted by those who cheat on their partners like that. There was nothing to watch other than news programs, and there were so many sad reports.

Kobato: You couldn’t help but get mad, po, right?

Saiki: I got irritated (laughs).

- I don’t think you Band-Maid have ever had direct lyrics like this before.

Saiki: Kobato’s style is the complete opposite of mine.

Kobato: Is it because I’m the type who only gives hints? So, (are you) the open-book type?

Saiki: Ha ha ha. I wrote a storyline to it. I tried including “I hate you” because I like its sound.

Kobato: You say that extremely a lot there, po, right?!

- The ending with the repeated “I hate you” is pretty crazy (laughs).

All: Ha ha ha.

Saiki: I told them I wanted to put HATE? at the end and to end the EP by saying “I hate you” (laughs).

Kobato: I wondered “Is it good to say ‘I hate you, I hate you’ at the end?”, though, po. But I thought it would rather end well.

Akane: It’s somehow so EP (laughs).

- You will be touring in Japan from August and in the US from October, with this work in your hand. Lastly, please tell us your determination.

Misa: I hope we will be able to do servings without any problems. I’ll be surprised at the difference from Japan though, because it looks they no longer have to wear a mask over there. I’m just looking forward to our first overseas servings in a while.

Akane: It’s been about three years since last time, so I will get an adrenaline rush, and I’m curious myself what I will be. I’d like to make my power explode.

Kanami: Since I will see our masters and princesses overseas for the first time in a while, I hope I will receive their power and inspirations, and after coming back, I hope I can write songs making use of my experiences there.

Saiki: I think there will be those who got to know about us Band-Maid during the pandemic. It’s nice to meet them. I’d like to do fun servings as a greeting to them.

Kobato: We weren’t able to just announce any tour in Japan as well as overseas, and finally time has come, po. I hope we can respond well to their feelings both in Japan and overseas, po. It feels like we’ve remembered the spirit we started with, so I hope we can match our feelings with theirs and make servings together, po!
