# MISA: Her change with the support from her irreplaceable bandmates and her passion hidden under her cool attitude

**Date:** 2023-07-31  
**Publication:** Burrn Japan  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/18tcl2l/translation_interview_with_misa_on_burrn_japan/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/18tcl2l/translation_interview_with_misa_on_burrn_japan/)  

---

The bassist, who takes pride in proving her existence on live stage, talks about her change with the support from her irreplaceable bandmates and her passion hidden under her cool attitude.

On February 11, 2021, Band-Maid were scheduled to perform solo at Nippon Budokan for the first time. When the opportunity to be memorable was unfortunately lost due to the prolonged pandemic, the members of the band, while acting tough, must have felt utterly devastated. In fact, as the restart of in-person concerts was further postponed, especially Misa admitted decisively that the situation had become nothing but stressful and told us it was too hard for her to live without servings. Her passionate tone of voice was somewhat different from her cool, black-clad appearance, but actually she has passion in her heart, and she also knows her past weakness. She acknowledges that being in Band-Maid has made her grow as a person and as a musician. We would like to start a conversation with her by asking how she feels right now as her original life with concerts is back.

- I started interviewing you Band-Maid at the end of 2020, around when you completed Unseen World. I clearly remember you talking in a really painful tone when we talked about how sad it was that you couldn’t do usual concert activities, in the COVID pandemic where we had to talk with a mask. Considering that you went through such a period, do you feel you have recovered your original healthy state?

Misa: I literally feel so. It feels like the world has come back to normal, which almost makes me forget about the days of the COVID pandemic… I’m genuinely happy about that.

- Around when you toured Japan last summer, there were still a lot of restrictions, and you couldn’t even cheer. But after that, on your North American tour in October, you must have been surprised at how different the situation was over there.

Misa: Yes, I really was, when the US tour started. Honestly, I had watery eyes then. Just before our serving, when the opening music started playing and I heard the audience’s voices, I literally had goosebumps. I got extremely emotional (laughs). Like, “This is what I’ve been waiting for!”

- Does it make a big difference whether you hear the audience’s voices or not?

Misa: Yes, it does. It’s totally different. Um, it feels good I can clearly hear them respond to the sound we are making. I can’t help but feel weirdly nervous when they remain quiet, and I feel being forced to do something I’m not used to, probably because I’ve almost never done servings in quiet places. For those who are used to servings in quiet environments, it might be rather awkward to cheer, but for me, it felt secure when I properly heard audience’s voices while playing.

- Because you have literally grown in such a concert environment, isn’t it?

Misa: Yes. So it was very uncomfortable for me not to be able to hear their voices (laughs).

- You state it clearly. However, I think the COVID pandemic wasn’t totally meaningless and it also had various positive effects on you, such as improvement of working environment at home. What was your biggest benefit from it?

Misa: Equipment, as you expect. I’m really happy I was able to set up my current environment. Now I can record at home and I can quickly add my bass to a demo sent from Kanami. It was nice I was able to set up everything needed properly and learn to use DAW and the like during that period. That still helps now, so you’re right, there weren’t only bad things but a lot of good thing as well, especially when it comes to equipment.

- If you have an activity schedule with alternating tours and song production like in the past, it’s difficult to learn something new or change your environment, or it’s simply impossible to have the time to do so, isn’t it?

Misa: Yes, that’s right. You can work faster on a lot of things if you have a computer and good equipment. I feel so partly because I’m used to it now, though. Before, when I wanted to record a bass line, I recorded it on my iPhone first. I already had a computer, of course, but the sound quality was inevitably poor, and the sound itself was a little too thin to send directly to Kanami. After all, it has a great benefit for Kanami when she puts a song together if all of us work with proper equipment.

- You have established a kind of songwriting system unique to Band-Maid more firmly by that, haven’t you?

Misa: Yes, we have. I also practice on my computer using stems… I line up all the stems on the DAW and practice by listening to each instrument clearly. Or by listening to the clicks. That has improved the quality of my practice.

- So, there are more things you can do at home now, and the quality of those things has improved. However, the reason why you can say that it also had positive effects is probably because this environment where you can do concerts normally is back. If the situation back then had persisted longer, you might have felt differently.

Misa: I agree. If that situation had persisted further, it would have been even more painful. I truly realized again I play in the band to do servings. So, I’m really glad the situation is back to normal.

- Anyway, I think you didn’t expect you would not only get your concert life back but also go to the US this frequently, did you? You have been doing great since last October.

Misa: That’s right, I didn’t imagine at all last year that we would go there two or three times a year like this.

- Do you feel your presence infiltrates the US as you have more and more opportunities there?

Misa: I feel that, because the number of audience is increasing. That’s the big difference I can see with my eyes. And of course the more people there are, the louder their voices get, so I really feel we Band-Maid infiltrate there little by little. I genuinely feel the number of audience is gradually increasing.

- I think you can easily feel that for your solo shows when the venues are bigger than before or tickets are sold out quickly. How do you feel at festivals, on the other hand?

Misa: Honestly, I thought people wouldn’t get excited so much at festivals, but actually they did great every time. They have a different type of intensity than at solo shows, though. US festivals often have an area in the middle where you can mosh, so mosh pits are formed there. It’s like all the rock and metal lovers gather at once, so their reactions are very intense. It was interesting and so much fun to watch them from the stage.

- I’d say the fun atmosphere is contagious.

Misa: Yes. Festivals in the US have a nice atmosphere. They feel quite different from the ones in Japan.

- In Japan, you appeared at Download Japan last August. And you were the only artists from Japan.

Misa: I was extremely nervous at that time. Partly because our slot was in the morning, and also because you weren’t allowed to cheer yet then.

- Are you attracted to the very free atmosphere of overseas festivals?

Misa: Yes. I get excited myself.

- And that makes you drink more, doesn’t it?

Misa: Yes, it does (laughs). At festivals, there’s no good timing to drink on stage, because our performance slot is short and there’s no MC time either. So, I drank until just before the serving started (laughs). Such as during the waiting time. I sometimes still drank even at the moment when the opening music started playing (laughs).

- That’s so you (laughs). I’ve heard you had a hard time due to heavy rain at Welcome to Rockville in Daytona Beach, Florida, on your North American tour in May.

Misa: Yes, we had a bad weather like a storm when the band before us was playing. But it turned out rather good. Our slot was delayed because of that, and while we were originally scheduled to play before dark, we ended up playing when it was gradually getting dark. It doesn’t get dark until about 8 or 9 o’clock during that time of year in the US, you know. The sky looked exactly like the halfway between sunset and dark. So the atmosphere was great, and there were more and more people coming. So I felt really great while playing. The audience must have had a hard time because of the muddy ground, though (laughs). Anyway, I really think I had great experiences at US festivals, not just that time.

- You are also scheduled to appear at Lollapalooza in Chicago in August. It’s also something you are looking forward to, isn’t it?

Misa: I’m so happy. You know, Lollapalooza is originally known as a festival of alternative rock, even though it looks like the performers are a little different genre-wise from the past. As an alt-rock lover, I’m so glad we will be performing there. I feel like we are invited as a rock band. I’m really looking forward to it.

- This is out of order, but you also had an opportunity to perform with The Last Rockstars in the US in February. It seems to have been a very sudden offer. What do you think about your experience that time? It must have been a different environment than festivals with diverse fans.

Misa: We played as a so-called warmup act for the first time in a long time. We Band-Maid haven’t played in joint concerts for a long time, in the first place. So, in that aspect, we played in such an environment with so many people who don’t know about us, for the first time in a really long time, and I was a little nervous.

- Only a little?

Misa: It’s not that I was very nervous. After all, I guess I became mentally stronger by going through the US tour in October and November.

- That makes sense. You also performed with Guns N’ Roses in November.

Misa: You’re right. So I was all right in the mental side. We couldn’t bring our usual sound engineer to the servings with The Last Rockstars, and the conditions of the performing environment weren’t perfect, but the sound was fine and I could play without any problem, so I just went on. At that time, I felt I was mentally stronger than before, and we all said the same thing.

- I’m sure that’s different from optimism like “Things will work out”, isn’t it?

Misa: That’s right. Of course I want to play even better, but while I’m aiming for that, I’ve become mentally strong to provide something good in any environment, or rather, I’m not fazed in any environment anymore. I’m not so shaken by any happenings anymore.

- I’d say that’s a result of your experience.

Misa: Yes. I think we have matured (laughs). We’ve been feeling that more often especially since our 10th anniversary year started. We often look back on our 10 years and talk to each other like “We’ve really matured”.

- If so, do you rather feel you were immature around when you formed the band?

Misa: Yes, I was immature. I was really childish, in my way of thinking and everything (laughs). I think I was weak. I was really weak mentally in the past. I’m like this now… well, I might be still weak, but in the past I was really weak, negative, and easily discouraged. I couldn’t get over the mental damage soon if I had trouble or something. I’ve become a lot stronger since then. In my case, I just easily got nervous. And I was the type who gets extremely nervous. At events where I appeared without my bass, my face turned red for embarrassment just by going on stage (laughs). So I was really bad at talk events. I’m not very good at them even now (laughs), but I feel more OK, or stronger, if I’m with my bass. Even when I played the bass, I used to feel like “Oh, I failed in this part” or “I failed again today” because I was much worse at the bass in the past than now.

- Simply put, you were not confident yet, were you?

Misa: Exactly. I’m basically the type who can’t be confident with themselves. I’ve been always like that (laughs). But I’ve changed a lot thanks to my bandmates.

- Is it like you feel secure if you hold your bass or you are with the other four?

Misa: That means really a lot to me. We members have become even better friends than before. I’d say we have strong fellowship.

- Isn’t it interesting? Your band wasn’t formed by a group of friends but you have built such a great relationship. I don’t think it’s just because you have been together for 10 years.

Misa: You’re right. Of course, we are much closer now… but why are we close like this? (laughs) What we have in common is that we are all pretty open-hearted. So we don’t get into complicated arguments, and we can express our thoughts to each other right away. I guess that’s the key of our friendship.

- Do you mean none of you have to take it all alone?

Misa: Right. I also tend to say what I’m thinking right away. It’s not about saying something harsh, of course, but I want to tell it as soon as possible when I have something nice or happy, so I tell them everything (laughs). So there are almost no secrets between us members.

- You may have the common factor of open-heartedness, but you all have different personalities, don’t you? Rather, you might be able to complement each other exactly because you are all different.

Misa: I really think that’s true. I guess it’s fun to be together because we are different from each other. However, the five of us wouldn’t have become friends if we had been just classmates in school (laughs). But we’ve become good friends in this band, and that’s why there are always new discoveries. It’s more interesting to be with them than ordinary friends. That’s because we are all different and our ways of thinking are completely different. Usually, if you make friends with someone in school or something, you tend to be like “We are similar”, you know. We are not like that, so it’s fun to be together.

- Right, you tend to make friends with classmates who love something you also love, have the same hobby as yours, or live near your house. But your band didn’t start off there, which might be why you have fun discovering new things about each other constantly.

Misa: That’s exactly right. I think that’s the reason why I don’t get bored at all even though we are always together.

- You can say that because you have spent 10 years together. I imagine you had some anxiety around when the band started.

Misa: In the beginning, yes, of course. I was anxious exactly because we were different from each other. I wondered like “What are they thinking?” because I thought they all had different thoughts than mine. However, I already knew Akane for a little bit of time, and she was a good friend, like she slept over at my house. I feel like that was a big factor. Also, I got along pretty well with Saiki from the beginning… The first serving we did was 10 years ago in July, and it was hard for me. I almost wanted to run away from there (laughs). I was so scared that I almost got to hate everything (laughs). There were a lot of women in the audience that day, and of course they didn’t know about us Band-Maid, and we dressed in maid outfits, so I knew they were looking at us like “Who the heck are these girls?” The venue was Otsuka Deepa, and the audience was so close to the stage… I can’t forget that day even now.

- One of the causes of your anxiety was that it was totally different from what you had been doing until then, wasn’t it?

Misa: Yes. I had no confidence at all, and I was just scared. But, as I kept performing at more occasions, the number of audience increased, and that gave me confidence. I also started to gain confidence in our songs, I started to use my own bass lines, and the audience was happy to hear them… and I gradually gained confidence through that accumulation. And here I am (laughs).

- So, you always stay cool now, don’t you?

Misa: Compared to the past, yes. I don’t get fazed by anything anymore.

- Now that you are not shaken by anxiety, what could make you feel down if any?

Misa: When was the last time I felt down? I’m so positive now that I don’t even remember when.

- For example, what if you were asked “Let’s do a talk event tomorrow”?

Misa: That’s my weakness (laughs).

- I see. Anyway, you have been doing a lot of activities related to your 10th anniversary this year, and the most symbolic one is the simultaneous release of the two best-of albums. How do you feel about it?

Misa: Well, when we formed the band, I never imagined we would release best-ofs. I’m surprised and very happy that I’ve been playing in the band for long enough to release best-ofs.

- Do you mean you didn’t expect Band-Maid to last long at all?

Misa: Rather, I didn’t know what would happen to us, to be honest. On our timeline, I gradually lost that feeling around when World Domination was out. That was when we did servings at Studio Coast and Zepp for the first time, and I really felt the number of audience was increasing fast, and I was gradually establishing my sound and getting more used to writing bass lines. This is also true now, but I was able to be on a roll, or to be in top form mentally then.

- In other words, your band’s internal growth and increasing external reputation or reaction started to match, didn’t they?

Misa: That’s right. I feel like it has been so around since then. It also meant a lot that we started to get more and more reactions from overseas. At first, that was a little uncertain, or rather doubtful, and I didn’t know if it was true or not, but when we went to the US for the first time, I had a feeling like “This band might be able to go much higher”.

- It’s hard to be confident on yourself even when you know you have been improving, if it’s not accompanied by achievements and results, isn’t it?

Misa: Yes, it is. I also had some sense of impatience in the opposite direction. When we went to the US for the first time, we didn’t have so many songs. I had a sense of impatience then, like “I must work even harder, because the audience reacts this much to me even though I’m this bad”. That certainly ignited my passion like “I must work hard!”

- Taking on the challenge of something new, such as an overseas concert or anything, often triggers a change in your motivation. After going through the period with only a small number of songs, you are in the situation where you can release the two best-of albums now. I think they are packed with your history of refining the band’s music. Didn’t you realize it again as a band member during the song selection process?

Misa: Looking at the song list, I felt somewhat nostalgic. Memories of the past came to my mind naturally, and I was moved. There might be some people who don’t like best-of albums, but all my favorite Japanese bands have released them, so I didn’t feel strange at all.

- It’s interesting they are not just singles collections, and I think they are literally the most wanted things by those who became interested in Band-Maid through live streaming during the COVID pandemic.

Misa: In that sense, best-of albums are really nice. I think they are also convenient because you can easily listen to songs up to now in the order that the band recommends.

- Your tour both in Japan and the US will continue, while interposed by the release of the best-of albums, and will finish with the Yokohama Arena show on November 26. What kind of picture do you have about it in your mind now?

Misa: Hmm… it’s difficult to imagine it specifically. It’s been a long-cherished dream of Kanami to do a serving at Yokohama Arena. When she came up with the idea of playing there, at first I felt like “Will we be really able to play there? Will we be on stage there?” But when it was actually finalized, I was so suprised like “Oh, we can really play there!” I was happy of course, but I was more surprised.

- What do you think about Yokohama Arena itself as a venue?

Misa: Personally, I don’t have any particular memories or feelings for Yokohama Arena itself. Of course I do want to play at big venues more and more, though. That’s why I was happy when we played at Tokyo Garden Theater. You know, the venue’s structure is amazing. From the stage, you can see people here, people there, and people in all direction. That was an awesome sight, and I had never seen anything like that before. Even though it’s a big venue, you can see the audience’s faces surprisingly close, so you feel they are close while actually they are far away. It was a very nice venue. Also, I had heard the reputation of its great acoustics beforehand. Actually, my mother had been to Garden Theater many times. She had seen a lot of bands live there, and she was like “I’ve seen concerts from many different seats, but the sound was great no matter where I was.” I had been really looking forward to the show since I heard that.

- Your mother, who offered you a gifted education of rock, is amazing as expected. (Misa says what’s called classic rock has been always played in her house since her childhood.) So, you were able to see the sight you hadn’t seen before, while having such prior knowledge in a good sense.

Misa: Yes. I enjoyed the serving that day so much. It felt so nice. We had also announced in advance that it would be allowed to cheer. However, it looked like the audience wasn’t used to cheering yet. Like “Are we really allowed to cheer?” (laughs) I clearly saw their facial expressions like that from the stage (laughs).

- The show kicked off 2023 and celebrated the beginning of your anniversary year, and at the same time, I think it was a kind of return match against the Nippon Budokan show that was cancelled due to the COVID pandemic.

Misa: Yes, indeed. After all, I’d like to be on stage at Budokan just once in my life.

- Please don’t say just once.

Misa: Ha ha ha! But if we are going to do it, we may as well do it on a special day to celebrate. I hope we will do a solo show there as something meaningful, such as on the Day of Maid, or on the day of our formation. If we were to wait for a next milestone, it would be our 15th anniversary or so, right? (laughs)

- You don’t have to wait that long. While performing at big venues more and more like that, you will go on more and more overseas tours, and your world domination will progress. “World domination” is a very strong word, but what did you honestly think about the keyword when it came up?

Misa: About “world domination”? At first, I thought “Other people say the same thing” and doubted like “Is it really possible to do such a thing?” It sounded too absurd to me. But gradually… it got real. For example, we hadn’t been to most of the stops of the US tour in May before, so I really felt we’ve been leaving our marks and footprints on the world map. I think that’s really amazing in itself.

- You talk as if it was about someone else (laughs). But actually, did you expect your music would spread all over the world? For example, in the case of Japanese-culture conventions or events, even if the venue is full of audience, they are not always music fans, as you know.

Misa: It’s true there tend to be more anime fans. So, in fact, I wondered “Do we get attention because of our maid outfits?” in those cases. Like, they like us for our contrast rather than for our music. However, even though that was the start, they must have become more interested in our music or servings, and I can feel that as we tour the US repeatedly like this. So, I hope we will go to more and more places while we can. While it’s possible.

- Do you mean before another pandemic occurs?

Misa: That’s one reason, but you know, we won’t be able to do this kind of activity forever, considering our age.

- You are too young to say that.

Misa: It’s true we are still young (laughs). Anyway, I’d like to go to more and more places we’ve never been to before, through this good flow of activities. We haven’t been to Australia, so I’d like to go there, and I’m also interested in going to the Philippines. We’ve already been to Indonesia and Singapore, but I’d like to kind of explore that area a little more (laughs).

- That will be an indispensable part of your world domination plan. By the way, what kind of vision do you have for the future beyond the big milestone of the 10th anniversary of your formation?

Misa: … I wonder what it is? First of all, this year will be over like a blink of an eye. A few years ago, I had the feeling of marking the end of a chapter at the end of each year, but I feel like we’ve been running on and on around since last year. Time has passed since the COVID pandemic, and things have gradually come back to normal, so I don’t feel a break in our activities. Maybe also because we had the Garden Theater show in January.

- Certainly, having a symbolic live show at the beginning of a year will make it hard to feel like the change of years marks the end of a chapter.

Misa: Exactly. On the other hand, this year, we will finish the tour at Yokohama Arena on November 26, so it might feel like this flow of activities finally completes there. However, personally I think we will keep on running as always even after that. I think we will go overseas a lot and keep moving forward just like this year.

- So, you will keep doing what you are doing now as long as possible, rather than setting a new goal or theme, won’t you?

Misa: Yes. I don’t have anything new in mind in particular at the moment. I’d like to keep improving my bass, of course. Recently I bought new equipment, and changed my amp from Orange to Aguilar, so it feels like my equipment has been settled down so far, and I don’t think I will buy new equipment for a while. Well, I will try a new bass, perhaps. Next year too, I’d like to keep improving the quality of what I do, with my current style.

- I see. In addition to that, I’m expecting more from you, Misa-san, on songwriting.

Misa: Whoa… (laughs) As for my own songwriting, actually it’s not getting anywhere at all yet. Rather, I personally think I might be better at improving songs written by someone else. I might be better suited to arrangement.

- Some people are good at turning zero into one, and some others are good at further proceeding with it. In that sense, I think you complement each other in the band.

Misa: Yes. When I receive a demo from Kanami, I try to come up with a bass line complete enough for recording even at that stage and send it to her. She says that leads her to new ideas again. She’s like “This is interesting!” to me (laughs).

- You complement each other both humanly and musically. In other words, you can be yourselves and contribute in each of your fields, and none of you have to carry an excessive burden.

Misa: That’s right. In my case, if I want to compose more, I need to learn more about programming drums, and I also need to learn to play the guitar better. Right now, I can only play chords, and I don’t know so many chords themselves. So I still have a lot of things to learn, but honestly, I’m just occupied with my bass. So I haven’t made much progress on the composition side (laughs). But of course I have the desire to write something.

- I’m looking forward to it too. I will also follow your various activities in the future.

Misa: Thank you so much. Please keep supporting Band-Maid.

- Just now you sounded like a mother saying “Please keep supporting our children”!

Misa: Ha ha ha!
