# A joint review of Band-Maid’s 10th Anniversary Best : Uniqueness that emerged from hard rock/metal and a cross-genre combination

**Date:** 2023-08-03  
**Publication:** Rolling Stone Japan  
**Interviewer:** Shinichiro Wada, Tomokazu Nishibiro  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/16e7rb3/translation_a_joint_review_of_bandmaids_10th/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/16e7rb3/translation_a_joint_review_of_bandmaids_10th/)  
**Original URL:** [#https://rollingstonejapan.com/articles/detail/39820/1/1/1#](#https://rollingstonejapan.com/articles/detail/39820/1/1/1#)  

---

Band-Maid have released the best-of albums 10th Anniversary Best to celebrate their 10th anniversary. The albums, which literally cover their 10-year trajectory, contain 30 songs in 2 volumes, selected and remastered from their indie-label period, their Nippon Crown period after the major-label debut, and after their label change to Pony Canyon. As the globally active Band-Maid will restart their North American tour in August including Lollapalooza Chicago, one of the three biggest outdoor festivals in the US, on August 4, and Mexico, the two music journalists Tomokazu Nishibiro and S.H.I. deep-dive into the best-of albums.

1. The 10 years of Band-Maid traced through their musical shift

Tomokazu Nishibiro

Band-Maid, formed in 2013 and celebrating their 10th anniversary this year, will be releasing their first best-of albums Band-Maid 10th Anniversary Best Vol. 1 and Vol. 2 simultaneously. The 30 songs in total that summarize their career to date beyond the boundary of the labels are not a mere collection of singles but a clear projection of the “live band Band-Maid”, and it will be ideal for beginners interested in trying Band-Maid.

In this review, we will clarify the appeal of Band-Maid by looking back on their history and referring to the songs on the best-of and the original albums those songs were first released on.

I remember it was around 2015-2016 when Band-Maid, who debuted with their first album Maid In Japan, found their direction to go in. The songs on it were all written by external songwriters, although the band was involved in the arrangement. Musically, while it had a hard rock taste common with their current style, they tried to reach a wider range of listeners rather than limiting themselves to a single genre. Then, in August of the same year, they released their first single Love, Passion, Matador, and one of the songs on the single would greatly influence their destiny.

The song is Thrill, which would be included later also in their second album New Beginning (2015). The band members did arrange it but didn’t write its lyrics or music. However, it had the heavy guitar riffs by Kanami (guitar) and Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals) emphasizing low tones, the rhythm ensemble by Akane (drums) and Misa (bass) that drives performance with a deep rumbling groove, and the singing voice of Saiki (vocals) with freshness and a hint of glamour… and their distinct sound created by that combination was highly acclaimed overseas before in Japan, which must have given them more confidence in what music to create from that point on.

I interviewed them for the first time in spring 2016, immediately after they released their third album Brand New MAID (2016). Even at the time of the interview, they already achieved their first overseas “serving” (concert) at Sakura-Con, an event in the US, in March 2016, as they attracted attention from overseas after the Thrill MV was featured on the American online radio/media Jrock Radio. They mesmerized a whopping 3,000 “masters and princesses” (fans) with their contrasting visuals and sounds there. After that, they went on a world tour in Mexico, the UK, Germany, France, and so on. Moreover, as Brand New MAID and their later works were distributed by the major label, they gradually gained recognition in Japan, which gave them increasingly more opportunities to appear at rock events such as Naon No Yaon and Arabaki Rock Fest.

As I wrote above, in their first three albums (Thrill, REAL EXISTENCE, Shake That!!, The non-fiction days, and FREEDOM on this best-of), Band-Maid arranged songs provided by external songwriters in a satisfactory way for the five of them and showed dynamic sound and ensemble under the influence of authentic hard rock and J-rock in the ’90s and onwards. It was not until the band’s first original song, Alone, that their “identity” began to be more firmly established.

They tried several times to write an original song before that, but they couldn’t get an OK from their staff for quite some time. They finally wrote the convincing song and included it in their third album Brand New MAID. It showed that Band-Maid began to make their future great strengths their own, namely the performance and arrangement that constantly show the instrumentalists’ high skill level, the emotional melody that shines on the hard and anxious sounds, and Saiki and Kobato’s twin vocals. It was probably their other “new beginning” next to Thrill.

Then, Band-Maid wrote 9 of the 13 songs on their fourth album Just Bring It (2017) only by themselves. Kobato wrote lyrics to two other songs. By writing almost all the songs on it by themselves, they successfully sublimated “Band-Maid-ness” into an even purer form. In fact, the album has many songs that deeply reflect the band’s experiences at servings and on tours in Japan and overseas and stand out live more than before. The songs on the best-of that correspond to that phase are YOLO, Don’t you tell ME, Puzzle, and Secret My lips.

In their fifth album WORLD DOMINATION (2018), they grew to the point that they were involved in writing the music and the lyrics of all the 14 songs, excluding the bonus track Honey (MUCC cover) on the standard edition. As the title “world domination” indicates, Band-Maid projected their strong attitude on the high-quality songs, which make you feel not only the growth of their playing and arranging skills but also the growth of Saiki and Kobato as vocalists at various moments. You can’t miss Saiki’s singing voice that became more powerful and convincing with each album, of course, but you also can’t miss Kobato’s vocals with an “intensity hidden under cuteness” in Rock in me, where she sings the lead vocals. Incidentally, TIME, where Kobato sings the lead, included in the previous album Just Bring It, can’t be missed either, so listen to it if you have the chance.

Band-Maid, moving forward to “world domination”, didn’t let up in their sixth album CONQUEROR (2019) either. Band-Maid composed and arranged all the songs on the album including the Oricon top 20 singles Glory and Bubble, and Kobato wrote all the lyrics except for the English song The Dragon Cries (produced by Tony Visconti, who worked many times with one of Saiki’s favorite musicians, David Bowie, although not included in this best-of), so you can fully enjoy the Band-Maid sound of almost 100% purity. In songs such as the abovementioned Bubble, as well as Endless Story, Blooming, and Rinne, the band delivers a timeless, “extra-thick and wild” hard rock sound, and you can fully enjoy the overwhelming feel that would leave you breathless.

The band kept doing servings with CONQUEROR in their hands, and in 2020, they announced that they would do their first solo serving at Nippon Budokan on February 11, 2021. However, around the same time, an unknown virus spread like wildfire across the globe, which drastically changed the entertainment world. A series of show cancellations and various restrictions prevented them from doing their activities as they wanted for long. Despite those circumstances, the five of Band-Maid, imagining an “unseen world”, released their seventh album Unseen World (2021), and were going to face the challenge of Budokan with the substantial album in hand. You know what happened, however. Unfortunately, their solo serving at Budokan has not come true yet as of the end of July 2023.

Although Unseen World, with the themes “Return to the roots” and “Progress from the present”, was a collection of songs created under the unusual circumstances of the COVID pandemic, the band’s aggressive stance didn’t waver at all. Warning!, NO GOD, After Life, and Manners, which are also included in this best-of, will get their unshakable belief across to you. Then, as the situation was gradually eased, they released the EP Unleash (2022), which opened the second chapter of Band-Maid’s world domination. As the title of “unleash” indicates, it was packed with hard and heavy tunes over the critical point, as if to break the stagnated world. Of those songs, the best-of has selected Corallium, which straightforwardly shows the band’s growth, but I hope you will check out their latest work Unleash too if you become more interested in the 10 years of Band-Maid through the two best-of albums.

This August, Band-Maid are going on a North American tour including their first appearance at the popular outdoor festival Lollapalooza Chicago in the US. In September after returning to Japan, they will restart the domestic leg of the Band-Maid 10th Anniversary Tour that started in March. The tour final, with the largest-ever capacity for a solo serving, will be held at Yokohama Arena on November 26. It will be undoubtedly the biggest turning point in their 10-year history of aiming for world domination. I really hope those of you new masters and princesses will go to see them at a serving if you become interested in Band-Maid even just a little through the two best-of albums. That said, even if I didn’t recommend you to do it, listening to the best-of will naturally make you want to see them live and hear their sound live.

2. A cross-genre combination that has satisfied even conservative hard rock/metal fans

S.H.I.

First of all, I would like you to know that Band-Maid is an extremely good band with a great significance in metal and in the history of Japanese rock. They tend to be treated as a gimmick band because of their starting point of trying to combine maid outfits and a band, but their actual sound is far heavier than you might imagine from such a concept, and their maid outfits that give you a comical impression rather function as soft combat uniforms to neutralize their tough sound. On top of that, they have so many musical ideas.

Band-Maid’s musicality is, to put it simply, {strong-style power metal + the diverse musical vocabulary of Japanese rock from the 1990s onwards} × the metal sound from the 2010s onwards, in which their outstanding craft smoothly combines elements that can hardly meet in the conventional silo-mentality view of genres. Among the most important are probably the so-called female rock element and the J-rock-like emo element. That context has been neglected by hard rock/metal fans in Japan, and there have been few cases where a metal band is welcomed for using such non-metal elements, while quite a few non-metal bands (usually in so-called visual-kei) have successfully incorporated and made full use of metal elements. However, Band-Maid have succeeded in such a difficult combination with a metal-oriented balance and satisfied even conservative hard rock/metal fans. I think that’s a very rare feat.

What is important on top of that is their uniqueness that can only be created through such a cross-genre combination. Just like many European folk metal bands incorporate traditional musical elements from their countries of origin and many Japanese bands introduce Japanese scales, Band-Maid incorporate and make use of J-rock-like emo and female rock ingredients as their essense well. That is a difficult combination for non-Japanese bands to imitate, which leads Band-Maid to their excellent originality. It allows them to establish both a critical reevaluation of the context that has been neglected in the metal scene and a musical depth that can be obtained only through tackling the context. That approach is similar to Babymetal (in the case of Babymetal, a reevaluation of bands such as Seikima-II and X Japan whose greatness wasn’t fully recognized yet in the mid-2010s, and an introduction of the comtemporary, advanced metal vocabulary such as deathcore and trap metal), and Band-Maid, an all-female band, achieve it by themselves. I hope the recognition and evaluation of them from that perspective will be more widely shared.

Band-Maid 10th Anniversary Best Vol. 1 and Vol. 2 are best-of albums that very clearly summarize the musicality explained above. Both of the volumes have diverse tunes, but I would say Vol. 1 has more J-rock-like emo ingredient, and Vol. 2 has more female rock ingredient. For example, Daydreaming on Vol. 1 has a ballad-like vibe common with Luna Sea and L’Arc~en~Ciel, with slight darkness like Chihiro Onizuka and thick, tough edginess unique to metal. What is skillful about the song is that they untangled musical ingredients of the emo lineage that metal fans don’t like (such as cliché chord progressions) and arranged them in a form more acceptable for those fans. They used the finesse of arrangement also in the other songs in various ways.

Puzzle on Vol. 2 shows their great technique to put the female rock element of Nanase Aikawa and the like (a vibe similar to Being and Avex in the ’90s) into the sound of nu metal, metalcore and onwards. Its intro riff belongs to the lineage of the melodic hard rock of the ’80s such as Europe and Journey, but by making it far louder in accordance with the criteria of metalcore and EDM, they were able to sublimate it into a form that appeals to those different listeners. They manage to create such a cross-genre mixture without making you feel anything strange just by hearing it, and successfully make musical picky eaters swallow it. This release of the two best-of albums is also meaningful in that it clearly shows their culinary skill of music.

That musicality of Band-Maid was already demonstrated in their classic song Thrill (music and lyrics by Kentaro Akutsu, who played an important role as a songwriter in their early days), which made them choose hard rock/metal when they were looking for the band’s musical direction. The basic tone of the song is strong power metal similar to Loudness and Accept in the ’80s, but with the thick sound production of nu metal and onwards, while the vocal melody belongs to the lineage of female metal/rock such as Show-Ya. It smoothly fused the elements that couldn’t be easily combined from the conventional hard rock/metal viewpoint, and it became Band-Maid’s important musical origin (and it’s the first track of Vol. 1 probably because of that perception).

Their musical width like that was well shown already in their first mini-album Maid In Japan (2014) released before they chose to go in the hard rock/metal direction. It was not until Just Bring It (2017) that the band members began to write most songs themselves, but the wide variety of musical styles in their early-day songs probably contributed to the richness of their original songs. Band-Maid’s starting point, including their maid outfits, tends to be seen as a gimmick band from the metal viewpoint, but exactly because of that, they are free from excessive expectations of authentic metal mannerism, and that has allowed them to widen their musicality freely (which is also applied to Seikima-II). This best-of is also an indication of the trajectory of such activities.

Actually, some of their recent songs are not easy to analyze as the abovementioned “combination of elements”. For example, Glory on Vol. 1 (first released on CONQUEROR in 2019), in my view, fuses authentic power metal like Vicious Rumors and alternative metal from the 2000s onwards like Maximum The Hormone through a speedy feel of mathcore and melodic hardcore, and reaches to the emo lyricism in the final part… but each element is fused together and hard to separate, which is sublimated into the excellent uniqueness of Band-Maid. Similarly, NO GOD on Vol. 2 (first released on Unseen World in 2021) completely fuses a verse with an tricky heavy metal/power metal riff accelerated to the tempo of melodic power metal (in which genre riffs are usually simple to accompany with vocals) and a chorus and a bridge with foreground emo/post-rock ingredients, through solo-like instrumental parts moving beyond those contexts.

Lastly, Corallium, the final track of Vol. 2 (first released on Unleash in 2022), blends a J-R&B element like Namie Amuro and an alternative metal vibe together to create an almost unrivaled flavor (and noticing their J-R&B element makes it easier to see that Rinne, for example, is composed of Slayer-style thrash metal + J-R&B). This best-of is very enjoyable and meaningful also in that you can see how they gradually established their identity.

That’s my overview of Band-Maid’s position in music and the fulfilling contents of Band-Maid 10th Anniversary Best. The album, with all songs remastered and in a good song order, is excellent as an introduction to the band for those who haven’t listened to them and also as a clue to understand them better for those who have already listened to them. Moreover, they have many good songs not included this time, so I hope you will also try their original albums. They have only masterpieces that allow you to enjoy the exquisiteness of critical creativity unique to Band-Maid.
