# Kanami: The guitarist, who has established Band-Maid’s unique musical style while always striving to improve her own technique, talks about her twists and turns and the place she has dreamed of.

**Date:** 2023-07-31  
**Publication:** Burrn Japan  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17y3jfc/translation_interview_with_kanami_on_burrn_japan/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17y3jfc/translation_interview_with_kanami_on_burrn_japan/)  

---

Band-Maid are doing their activities extremely vigorously, alternating tours in Japan and in North America, but the five of them continue to experiment and try new things every day even on the tours. Even on the day of this interview, the band was rehearsing in a studio to further upgrade their ongoing tour. Their seriousness in music and strictness with themselves overlap with the character of Kanami, the key figure of their composition. She writes songs almost every day, and never misses a day without holding her guitar. There is no doubt she supports the band’s musical foundation. At the same time, she acknowledges that she herself is supported by the other four members. Let’s find out what she is thinking in her mind.

- So, how did your rehearsal go today?

Kanami: Today, Kobato and I tried out new amps. I felt like “Not bad!” We are touring right now, but we would like to become even more powerful for Yokohama Arena, which is why we tried out new amps.

- It’s important to try new things every day, isn’t it? When we interviewed all of you during the COVID pandemic, you all said you wanted to do in-person concerts and you missed live shows with cheers. Kanami-san, now that touring itself is back, has your daily life changed?

Kanami: Yes. Because, you know, our servings have started… Before that, we had no choice but to focus mostly on song production, but I feel that our style of song production in parallel with serving activities is back. That’s the style we had been doing for a long time, but it’s also quite tough. I partly miss the days when we didn’t do servings and I was able to concentrate on song production and practice. Looking back on it now, I might have had a little more time and a little more room in my mind during that period. So, now, I feel I have returned to the lifestyle I had before then.

- So, the time spent during the COVID pandemic wasn’t wasted, and it was meaningful for various trials and adjustments, is that right?

Kanami: Yes. I think it meant a lot for all of us, not only me. Our composition style at home has improved, such as our home equipment, so the quality of demos has improved. I think it was a great opportunity when it comes to song production.

- I see. By the way, you have been having a hectic time since last summer. What do you think about that?

Kanami: Honestly speaking, I never imagined at first that we would be a band that goes abroad this frequently. It was one of my dreams, of course, but I didn’t think we would reach this level. I hoped we would tour overseas twice or so this year, but thankfully we also had the pleasure of performing with The Last Rockstars, and I’m very happy we have more opportunities to perform overseas like that. In fact, when I’m in a different environment, my creative imagination expands, like “If we are going to perform in this kind of venue, I should write this kind of song before the next time”. I mean, if we go around overseas, not only in Japan. When we went to the US in May, especially when we performed at festivals there, I had a lot of things on my mind, because, you know, overseas festivals are totally different from those in Japan. The way people feel or get excited is different in the first place, and that changes our own intensity, so I received a lot of inspirations like “Next time we perform at an overseas festival, we’ll need this kind of song”. In reality, it’s a tough task to tour overseas, but I believe we Band-Maid will be definitely an even better band if we keep doing such activities.

- It’s very interesting that performing at more and more concerts and festivals not only improves your experience but also leads to your imaginations in terms of creativity. In short, do you think of something like an answer to the scene you see from the stage?

Kanami: That’s right. In my case, I’m the type who can come up with only vague ideas about that, but, for example, Saiki says from a very objective point of view in that case, like “This song was popular at Detroit” or “It’s better to have this kind of song in that area”, and I realize too like “Oh, you must be right”. More ideas come out from not only me but also my bandmates like that.

- So, you are able to make use of the experiences, findings, and insights of all the five of you in your next songwriting process, aren’t you?

Kanami: Yes, I think I am. Honestly, it’s easier for me to write a song if they say “I want this kind of song”, because I will think “OK, I’ll write something like that”. The more ideas I have, the better. I receive inputs from them when I talk with them like “What kind of song do you want next?” or “What did you think of the overseas reaction to that song?” Overseas tours are a good experience for all of us also in that sense.

- However, if you pack your box of ideas with the other members’ inputs, it might get jam‐packed. Doesn’t that make it difficult for you to organize?

Kanami: My bandmates’ suggestions are often rather vague too. For example, they are often like “I want a song with modulation soon” or “It’ll be nice if we have a song that they can headbang to at festivals”, so I receive them just as ideas. As for song production, it’s true I’m like “I have to do this, I have to do that”, but I have to write a lot of songs anyway, so the more ideas there are, the more helpful. If their requests were too detailed, I would be in trouble, but fortunately my bandmates don’t suggest in detail (laughs).

- I see. For example, when they want some kind of song, you don’t have to write a song exactly like that.

Kanami: That’s totally fine. They only suggest with images, and they are not like “I don’t want to play this song” or something. They have never said such a thing to me, probably. They all accept my songs, so it’s easy for me to write.

- You talked earlier about the difference between festivals in Japan and in the US. In what part did you feel it specifically?

Kanami: Let me see… This might not be a good way to put it, but I have the impression that many Japanese people can’t move their bodies so much to a song they don’t know. It feels like they are very different when they know the song and when they don’t. I’d say when they hear a song they don’t know, they gradually come to like it while digesting its vibe. On the other hand, fans at festivals in the US move their entire bodies to the music, no matter what the song is. I can see that from the stage, so it’s easier for me to play, or rather, I’m relieved. It feels like that. Also, the audience has a good sense of rhythm in general over there. I have the impression that they all get into the rhythm well.

- In contrast, in Japan, when they hear a song for the first time, their stance is to listen to it calmly, is that right?

Kanami: Yes, that’s my impression. So, every time I play a new song, I personally get worried like “Didn’t they like this song much?” However, actually, I find messages like “I heard that song for the first time and I really liked it” on social media later. So in my case, I often come to realize like “Oh, they liked it actually”.

- They should react more openly, don’t you think?

Kanami: But that’s Japanese people’s characteristic, so they should listen as they like. When I myself go to a concert, I can’t keep moving all the way through, and I’m the type who concentrates on listening with my ears, so I really understand how they feel when they hear a song they don’t know.

- You have been performing on various stages in Japan. At Download Japan last summer, you performed just after the doors opened, and the audience wasn’t full yet, so I suppose you had quite a hard time. How do you remember that day?

Kanami: That day… didn’t we start with an instrumental?

- Yes. Your first song was From now on, which is included on Unleash. At that point, you hadn’t announced even its title.

Kanami: Oh, you are right. I think that was the first time we played it in public, and I wasn’t accustomed to it so much yet, so I was pretty nervous. Later, I heard those who came to see us say “I couldn’t make it in time and I missed it. So sad!” but I remember I was so nervous I couldn’t play it in a completely satisfactory way… I wonder how it went? I don’t remember well about it anymore, because there have been too many things since then (laughs). Anyway, I’m sure I was very nervous that day.

- In my case, I entered the venue as soon as the doors opened, so I made it in time for your opening, and I was really surprised you played an unreleased instrumental as your first song.

Kanami: Oh, were you? I’m relieved to hear that! I naturally had the feeling that “We won’t lose!” Like “Could you please not underestimate us just because we are women?” (laughs) I think that’s why we decided to play it as our first song.

- So, do you feel like “Could you please not underestimate us?” rather than “Don’t underestimate us!”?

Kanami: Yes, in my case (laughs).

- After that, you went on a US tour last October, and in November, you had the opportunity to perform at Guns N’ Roses’ Saitama Super Arena show. I think that was a good experience different from festivals.

Kanami: Above all, that size. We hadn’t had the opportunity to perform at a big venue like that, so I remember enjoying the size of the entire stage, like going from one side to the other side and moving as far as possible. As for the audience, many of them were welcoming, and I was glad they stood up when we started to play even though many of them must have been unfamiliar with our songs.

- The flow of events was also good. You were scheduled to perform at Tokyo Garden Theater in January, and you were able to experience a big venue before that.

Kanami: Yes, it was. However, I was thinking about something far beyond Garden Theater in my mind. I played while imagining we will do a solo concert at Saitama Super Arena someday.

- That’s reassuring. Anyway, that Garden Theater show was the biggest solo concert ever for you Band-Maid, so in a sense, it was a return match against Budokan in a different form.

Kanami: I think so. To be honest, my memories of Garden Theater don’t come to mind quickly right now. But, you know, you were allowed to cheer there. I was very happy that you were able to cheer for the first time in a while, not in the US but in Japan. It was certainly a return match in the sense that we couldn’t perform at Budokan, but more than that, there hadn’t been an opportunity for many people to come to see us live for a few years. Even when we did servings, most of the venues were not that big at that time, so I felt very fortunate we were able to do a serving where they all gathered, I mean, those who wanted to see us live all gathered, and they were able to cheer. My memory is vague on quite a lot of details, but I’m sure I felt that way.

- Does whether you can hear audience’s voice or not make a big difference to you on stage?

Kanami: Yes, there’s a big difference. There were still a lot of people wearing masks at that time, of course, but I think their facial expressions were very different when they cheered. I knew they smiled under their masks even before then, but when they cheered, their facial expressions became different, and the amount of passion that came across to us was also very different. So… in short, it was great!

- On the North American tour last October, you already exprerienced what a live show is originally supposed to be like, didn’t you? At that point, didn’t you envy the environment of the US?

Kanami: Oh, you are right. I thought they would feel good when Japan becomes like that and allows us to do servings with cheering again. However, Japan was still in a situation where you were expected to act carefully then, you know. That’s one of Japan’s good points in its own way, so I came back while thinking it would be nice if we can make them enjoy in a way unique to Japan. That said, when we performed at Garden Theater in January, I did think “This is it!”

- The show was officially made into a video. You revealed information about the entire tour and the tour final at Yokohama Arena, on stage. You must have been itching to announce that.

Kanami: Yes, that’s right!

- How do you feel about the milestone of your 10th anniversary?

Kanami: To be honest, I didn’t think we would be celebrating our 10th anniversary… I feel like “What? It’s been 10 years already?” As for Yokohama Arena, it’s a place where I’ve definitely wanted to perform since I started Band-Maid, so I have a strong attachment to it. My heart swells with excitement for just being able to perform there at the milestone of our 10th anniversary. Just thinking about it almost makes me cry (laughs). I think I will definitely cry when I’m on that stage…

- Is there any reason why you have such a strong attachment to it?

Kanami: Well… this is really personal, but my grandmother liked Band-Maid so much. She lived in Kanagawa Prefecture, so I thought she would be able to come to Yokohama Arena and I would be able to arrange a good seat for her, and I promised her like “Grandma, we will do a serving at Yokohama Arena someday, so come to see us”, but she passed away… So I couldn’t make it in time at all for showing her our show there, but I was able to tell her “Grandma, my dream has come true!” when she was alive, so I believe her spirit will be definitely there.

- I’m sorry for making you tell the sad story. So, it was literally a promised place, wasn’t it?

Kanami: Yes, it was. I will finally fulfill the promise with her. That’s why I’m really looking forward to it.

- Have you already made an image of the Yokohama Arena show in your mind?

Kanami: Well, last year, like in our bus overseas, I talked with my bandmates like “What song should we play?”, “Let’s connect this song like this”, and so on, and took notes, then I came back and… Um, I probably love the band too much, and I was crazy enough to work on it just after coming back from the tour, even though I must have been tired (laughs). So, since I came back to Japan, I’ve been giving form to the inspirations I had received from them and arranging songs for Yokohama Arena. I’ve been gradually making an image of it.

- You answered my question from the standpoint of a kind of musical director rather than telling what kind of sight you want to see there. To be honest, that is so you.

Kanami: That might be so, but actually, I’m not good at coming up with images in that aspect either, so ideas like “Let’s have this kind of session in this song” come from my bandmates. Such suggestions often come from Saiki. I usually go on writing while getting inspirations from her words.

- I see. So, Kanami-san, you create the foundation like that, and all of you members expand it and think of appropriate staging for that…

Kanami: Yes. As for the staging, I don’t know much and I can’t say much about it, so I ask Saiki, who is our kind of general director, to come up with ideas.

- Is Saiki-san your band’s general director?

Kanami: Yes, she is. After all, she’s the best at seeing everything from an objective perspective. I’d say she understands the entire flow and sight of a serving as well as songs. It’s like I write songs and make each song stand out in order to live up to her vision. I learn a lot from her ideas. She can see a vision of what will definitely please our masters and princesses. After all, the underlying idea is to make them happy, so we can do anything that leads to it. We just want to make them happy.

- That might be because of the freedom Saiki-san has as she is not bound by any instrumental theory or logic. I guess that works.

Kanami: Yes. If she could play the guitar actually, or played the drums well, or could compose music, things might have been different, and rather we might have had a conflict. We might have had a conflict exactly because of her knowledge. But I think she is the type who comes up with ideas really beyond logic. However, some of them are impossible to do, and if I say “We can’t do this”, she is like “OK, then let’s think about other ways” and thinks again. She never forces her ideas like “You must do this!” So it’s easy for me to work with her. She never sticks to a fixed idea, and she thinks from the standpoint of each of us members. She thinks of the way or flow of events to make it more enjoyable for all of us. [Note: Kanami and Misa’s guitar-bass duel was Saiki’s idea.]

- That’s amazing. By the way, exactly 10 years ago in July, you had your first concert as a four-piece band before Saiki-san joined. Do you clearly remember it?

Kanami: Oh… that’s right. We did two concerts or so as a four-piece band at that time. So… I wonder how they went? We did what to do, but we weren’t what you call a band yet. I was too desperate for what I had to do, and also it was not a song we wrote ourselves but it was like covering a song we had received. So, to be honest, looking back on it now, it was like an extension of a student band, and I just thought “I hope this band will go well”. But like “It looks fun, so I’ll give it my best shot”. I did it casually like that.

- You said earlier that you didn’t think you would be around for 10 years. Was there a moment when you came to think your band was going to last long?

Kanami: Nothing in particular… I didn’t really think about how long we would keep going. However, I set a target for myself to meet almost every time. Like “If we can’t perform at a venue of this level in a few years, it will be difficult for us to continue, and in that case, I will have to pause and think.” I thought like that every time. As for song production, like “If my songs are not adopted by that date, this band might not suit me.” After all, I have always wanted to be a songwriter. In fact, I got a lot of rejections around when I began to write songs for the band, so I thought like “If my songs are not adopted by that date, I should pause and think again whether this band suits me, and if I can’t play songs I want to play, this band probably doesn’t suit me.” Then, I kept on writing with that in mind, and I always met the targets (laughs). So I’m really thankful to be in this environment, and I’ve been meeting targets of what I want to do, and when I realized, I even think I probably can’t live without the band. I love the band and my bandmates so much that I absoutely hate to leave them. There might be a moment in the future when I have to pause for a while, but I’d say I can keep going exactly because they stay with me. It’s not that I have kept going just to keep going, and actually, when I realized, I have been able to keep going, really thanks to my bandmates. Also, we are lucky to have great people around us including our staff and manager, which is why we have been able to continue this long.

- Even if you feel the need to pause for a while by any chance in the future, your desire to keep going with your bandmates will be stronger than that, is that right?

Kanami: Yes. To be honest, I might think someday that we don’t have to be a band. But I just would like to be involved in music with all of my bandmates for the rest of my life. So… honestly, I literally don’t know what will happen in 10 years from now, and I have no idea even what will happen in 5 years, but I definitely would like to stay connected with them through music.

- Currently, the Band-Maid music is based on what we call hard rock. However, Kanami-san, you didn’t originally come from that field. So, writing songs in this band was a challenging task of making something you had never made before, wasn’t it?

Kanami: Yes, you are right. I had never written this kind of music before starting Band-Maid.

- Did stepping into unknown territory like that inspire your go-for-it attitude and lead to enjoyment, in some aspect?

Kanami: Yes. At first… it was hard, you know. I think it’s very hard to start something you have never done before no matter what it is, and as for songwriting, it was in fact quite a burden to create something in a genre I had never created anything in. It also took a lot of time. Now, I can easily come up with a lot of ideas, but I had a hard time back then because I didn’t have a stock of ideas at all yet and I could hardly come up with new ideas.

- Intense songs, fast songs, technical songs. You have been creating songs that set the bar high, even just in terms of playing. Moreover, the range of your songs is widening. I think you have definitely awakened a new part of yourself, or brought out a different part of yourself, by tackling hard music.

Kanami: That’s right. And actually, now, I even want to write only these kind of songs. I suppose it has gradually become a genre I’m good at. Before starting Band-Maid, I mainly wrote J-pop-style songs, but I have become good at writing Band-Maid-style songs like this… I think that’s how I have formed myself. Now, I really don’t want to write anything other than these kind of songs.

- That’s very interesting. Because I rather think you would have had a hard time if you had been a complete hard rock or metal person from the beginning. But you are not bound by those genres’ rules, and that’s exactly why you can create something different.

Kanami: I think that might be the reason myself. I’m not a typical metalhead or a hard rock person. Rather, I have been playing the classical piano for a long time, so I originally like classical music elements and the like. Rather than melodies that fit in simple major chords, I find myself liking melodies with other chords in addition to that. So, for example, I think I can create like “This is an intense two-beat song but I’ll add some stylish chords”, probably because I’m not bound by any particular genre.

- This time, the best-of albums to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the band’s formation will be released. Checking out the songs on the albums again, I felt the process of refining Band-Maid’s unique style while playing a wide variety of songs. How do you feel about the release of these best-ofs?

Kanami: That was one of the things I admire, and one of my dreams. I myself used to check out only best-of albums at CD stores in some period, but I never imagined I would be able to release ones. First of all, I was surprised like “Oh, we already have that many songs!” I talked with my bandmates like “We used to play cover songs too because we didn’t have enough number of songs” and “It’s great we have this many songs now and we can release best-of albums”. I’m glad another dream of mine came true like this, and I’m full of gratitude.

- Moreover, you will release not one but two best-ofs at the same time.

Kanami: One album wasn’t enough anymore to include these songs. First, the record company gave us a draft of song selections, and then we members discussed based on it and went on deciding songs.

- Kanami-san, how do you yourself see the evolution of your music? I’m sure you are more and more proud you guys have been creating something unique to yourselves, aren’t you?

Kanami: Yes, to some extent. Looking back on the past, I think my songwriting has been gradually improving. Listening to a past song makes me think like “Oh, it had so few audio tracks”, but also like “This melody came out maybe because of this number of tracks” and “I could write this phrase only back then”. While I think “I could write it better now”, I also think “However, this song of this period was nice”. For example, Saiki sometimes asks me to write a song like Choose me again, but I think that song could be written only by what I used to be then. If I try to reproduce it now, I find myself having already absorbed too many things. So, I try to write one, like “It’s difficult to write the same song as in the past, but I’ll try with that image in mind”, but I often come up with a totally different song in the end (laughs). [Note: Kanami tried to write songs like Choose me and ended up writing H-G-K and After Life.]

- But that’s part of the fun of songwriting, isn’t it?

Kanami: Yes. I think the songs back then are good in their way. However, I myself think I create much more interesting things now than back then.

- It’s true your past songs have fewer audio tracks. If you had written them now, you might add orchestral tracks or more guitars. So, that means you come up with such specific ideas on sound making when you write songs now, doesn’t it?

Kanami: Yes, that’s the difference. Back then, I didn’t come up with so many ideas. That’s a matter of skill, and I think I simply didn’t have enough of it before.

- Don’t you ever feel like writing a revised version of a past song?

Kanami: It feels a little too precious to lose. For example, even if a song feels like having too few tracks now, I often like phrases in it. If I were to revise a song, I would rather try to play it again or have them sing it again. There are also some songs I’d like to partly change or add something to. So, actually, that’s why I add small things to songs at servings. When I feel “This part should have had a little more back track”, I often add it.

- In that sense, we can enjoy evolved versions of the past songs at your concerts, is that right?

Kanami: Yes, I think so. I think you can hear the latest states or latest versions of our sound of the moment at servings.

- Your songwriting has changed significantly, but have your motivations or desires as a guitarist ever changed?

Kanami: If there is something that only I can do, I think it’s guitar melodies, so I’d like to bring out more melodies of my own. For some reason, I sometimes write something I myself can hardly play in terms of technique, but it has already become a kind of habit for me. I still do this now, but in the past, I often wrote a demo by playing it at a slower tempo and then bringing it back to its original speed. I get something extremely difficult in that way of writing. However, I take on the challenge, thinking “It will be extremely cool if I become able to play it”, and work on things to improve my level. That’s what I keep doing. As for technique, I think the most important thing is to never give up, and I’d like to keep that in mind forever. I believe there is room for me to grow even more. I still have a long way to go as a guitarist and as a composer, so I need to work even harder on that. I believe I will be able to write even better songs and play the guitar even better, so I won’t give up, even after the 10 years, and I’d like to pursue that even more.

- And you already have sufficient inputs in order to improve yourself, don’t you?

Kanami: Yes, thankfully.

- I’m looking forward to your further evolution in the future. It has become clear through this conversation that if you want to dig into Band-Maid now, you should listen to these two best-of albums first, and that you can enjoy the latest Band-Maid sound at concerts.

Kanami: Indeed. Of course, we welcome new fans who become interested in us in this opportunity. In that sense, I think the song order and the good balance of songs will be important, and the general director Saiki-sensei will think very carefully about that (laughs). She’s like “Let’s play this song to make it easier to get into the show” for those who come to see us for the first time, and like “Having a song like this will make it easier for new listeners to enjoy” about an album, and I’m always like “You may be right, that’s a good idea!”

- Something easy to get into for beginners and satisfying for longtime listeners. It must be difficult to find the right balance, but I think you guys are able to do it because you are in a healthy state where opinions come from within the band.

Kanami: I think so too.

- What will await you beyond the Yokohama Arena show, and what do you want to aim for in the 11th year and beyond?

Kanami: Hmm. Personally, what I wish now is to stand on the main stage at an overseas festival. Recently, we have been appearing at a lot of festivals thankfully, but we haven’t performed on the biggest stage yet. My desire to perform on the main stage is getting stronger and stronger. I hope our recognition will increase enough for us to stand on the main stage at a big festival. In Japan as well, of course. When I realized I have such a desire, I thought I got another dream.
