# Akane: The natural-born drummer, who has not only sharpened her own beat but also stood in the middle of the band and played the role of a glue, talks about her unremitting passion and never-ending quest.

**Date:** 2023-07-31  
**Publication:** Burrn Japan  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17y3tjq/translation_interview_with_akane_on_burrn_japan/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17y3tjq/translation_interview_with_akane_on_burrn_japan/)  

---

Before starting Band-Maid, Akane used to play at a music bar for a period of time. The bar, where one could enjoy eating and drinking while listening to live music, mainly featured US/UK music from the ’60s to the ’80s, and she had a huge repertoire of about 600 songs there. Nowadays we are so accustomed to the easiness of the internet where we can access all kinds of music of all the ages that we tend to confuse what we just know and what we have actually experienced. Her raw musical experience of that period, however, must have been invaluable to her. Incidentally, as an interesting episode about her, what she played at a kind of audition to be allowed to perform at the bar was Deep Purple’s Highway Star, and she later went to see them live at Nippon Budokan. She says she was genuinely moved by the sight of Ian Paice on stage, saying “He’s really there!” In a past interview with her, she said about the songs she encountered at that time, which were written long before she was born, “I’m sure I had never heard them before but somehow they made me think I knew them. I thought songs that transcend time in that way were called masterpieces.” Ten years after their formation, Band-Maid already have many songs with a timeless appeal. And Yokohama Arena, where they will reach at this major milestone, was also a place of destiny that determined her musical life. Let’s have her conclude this series of the five individual interviews.

- You will finally release best-of albums. And not one but two at the same time. How do you feel about that frankly?

Akane: First of all, I never imagined at all we Band-Maid would be around for 10 years. I almost can’t believe a band can be around for 10 years in my musical life. Of course, I had hoped from the beginning of the band that we would be able to keep going for a long time, but honestly, I’m surprised myself that we actually made it real. Moreover, I always thought that only those who have been active for a long time could release a best-of album, so I’m glad I’m now among them, or we Band-Maid are now one of those bands. So, the fact that our best-of albums will be out itself makes me deeply impressed.

- I think you must have realized a lot of things again when you saw the song lineup on the albums.

Akane: Yes. In fact, every time the number of our songs increases, I count them quite regularly like “How many songs do we have at this moment?” or “Have we passed the 100 song mark?” (laughs)

- You are so meticulous! (laughs)

Akane: Ha ha. And each time, I feel like “Oh, we’ve come this far.” When I think of a setlist, I always make a long list of all our songs from the earliest to the latest, and when I see it, I think to myself “I didn’t know we had this many songs!” The songs on these best-of albums are all something we have refined at servings with our masters and princesses, so we are satisfied with the lineup.

- Your longtime fans will be satisfied, and it will be also the best introduction to the band.

Akane: Yes, exactly. I’d be happy if they could start listening to us with it. We have mainly selected songs that get audience excited at servings, or highlight songs at servings, so it’s all right if those who come to see us live for the first time just listen to these two albums. In that sense, I think these are made for the sake of servings.

- You Band-Maid yourselves have been active always for the sake of live performance. However, the COVID pandemic prevented you from doing it, and the situation we had before came back only recently. How do you feel now about those nearly three years?

Akane: You know, I had a very hard time when we couldn’t do servings and couldn’t see them, and I felt a little depressed. However, other than that, we had a lot of benefits too. In my case, I was able to use that time for individual practice, which meant a lot. I’d say I myself was able to grow through that. I was able to use all the time I would have spent for servings for myself, so in that sense, I think it was very meaningful. Without the COVID pandemic, I couldn’t have had a lot of time like that for myself. I don’t mean I turned crisis into opportunity, but I think I was able to use time actively and positively. I was fired up for practice, and that has led to what I am now, so I think it was a meaningful time for me. I switched my thinking well like “This is a period to prepare for the future”, which was a good thing.

- I suppose the reason why you decided to use that time to improve yourself is because you want to continue your activities for long. The band, as well as drumming.

Akane: Yes. I really think I still have a lot of things to work on, and a lot of things I can’t do yet. Of course, I also have a lot of things I want to do in the future, and in order to do them, I really feel I have to improve my skills. I still have room for improvement in a lot of areas, including sound making, and actually I’m trying to change my playing form a little now. As for my form, in fact, I’ve been working on it since the pandemic. If you play with the correct form, the sound will be different, and above all, you can produce a beautiful sound comfortably. It makes me realize how much difference the way of using my body can make. On the other hand, I also found how I moved my body by force until then. So, I don’t think I will ever stop practicing. I’m sure I’ll never be satisfied with myself. The day when I feel I’m perfect will probably never come (laughs).

- You will never be perfect. If you start thinking like that, don’t you feel it’s tough?

Akane: No, I’ve been doing this for 10 years in reality, and I’m having a lot of fun now, so I’ll be probably fine in the future too (laughs). Also, if I had been destined to fail, I would have already failed. Actually, I once hit a wall of a double pedal in the past, and I had quite a hard time then, but once I got over it, I started enjoying myself. If you become able to do something you couldn’t do before, the range of what you can do will expand, and it will be more and more fun, you know. So, in my mind, I quickly found my path, or began to clearly see my goals, after overcoming the double pedal. Including how I should practice. My previous hesitation disappeared and I began to clearly see what I needed to do to become the drummer I wanted to be.

- I see. By the way, looking back on the history of Band-Maid, you did your first live performance exactly 10 years ago in July, didn’t you?

Akane: Yes, we did. At that time, there were only four of us.

- Do you still remember it vividly?

Akane: Yes, of course. I remember everything from the band’s formation vividly.

- Akane-san, do you have a pretty good memory?

Akane: Well, I’m the type who remembers things that others don’t remember (laughs). Rather, I sometimes forget important things I have to remember at work but remember trivial things, or things that make them wonder “Why do you remember such a thing?” (laughs) Basically, I remember shocking things.

- If so, was your first live performance something shocking to you?

Akane: In a sense, yes. Above all, there were so few fans, like playing an away game. This is the same as when I was in another band, but your first live performance gives you a unique nervousness, you know. I guess that’s why I remember it well. At that time, we had only a few songs, and our musical style was pretty different from now, though.

- The Band-Maid music gradually became harder and more aggressive over the years. Was that a very natural transition?

Akane: Yes, I think it was a very natural process, especially after we got a clear idea of what we wanted to do. Until then, we asked ourselves, “What do we want to do?” and tried a lot of different genres, but nothing seemed to click. On the activity side too, we repeated exploration or trial and error for some time, like “How can we gain more audience?” or “What kind of music should we play?” If that period had been too long, the band itself might have become unstable. In that sense, I think it was fortunate we found the direction we want to take quickly. Also, it was important the five of us agreed when the idea of going to harder music came up. If just one of us members had been against it, we would have had some awkwardness.

- What I find interesting is that you didn’t start the band by gathering musicians for a certain musical style and none of you came from a hard rock background. Why do you think the five of you were attracted to that direction?

Akane: In my opinion, it was about having an interesting contrast, after all. We wanted to play music that would show a big contrast to our cute maid outfits, so we naturally thought harder music would be more interesting, rather than pop music. Actually, that was what made me join this band. I was attracted to the concept of playing music with a contrast to cute outfits, so I thought from the beginning that it would be definitely better to play cool songs. I think the contrast was essential to this band. It’s still true now.

- I see. So, you wanted to emphasize your contrast, and that’s exactly why you didn’t go with the typical hard rock visuals even though your music was getting harder and harder, is that right?

Akane: That’s right. Exactly because we had maid outfits first, it was easy in a sense to see what was on the opposite end. If we had worn black and just a little cute outfits, we might have hesitated for a while, but the concept of maid outfits was already there.

- Then, exactly because your music went in the harder direction, you had to learn the double pedal, and I think your bandmates each had own challenges like that.

Akane: Yes. Our starting point to move in the harder direction was the song Thrill, and it was the first song I used the double pedal for. I began to practice it hard at that moment, expecting I would use it all the time.

- I think you haven’t made a major musical turn since you decided on your direction then and you have just continued to evolve. For example, I think you have more opportunities to play older songs on the ongoing tour of the 10th anniversary celebration. When you play those songs, in what part do you feel your evolution as a player?

Akane: First of all, my sound making is different now. When we think of playing an older song for the first time in a while, I first listen to the recording again, and that’s the first thing that comes to my mind. My sound was weak, or girly, after all (laughs). Well, in fact, I was a girl, but I’d say it was a young sound. Maybe because my way of hitting was different. Anyway it sounded lighter than now. That makes me realize again my way of hitting has changed, and when I play a phrase I didn’t like back then because I wasn’t good at it, I’m often like “Oh? I can play it.” There are so many cases like that. Now, I sometimes even wonder “Why did I struggle at this?”

- There is sometimes a chain of events where you solve one very basic problem and that leads you to solutions to other problems, isn’t it?

Akane: Yes, that’s right. In fact, there are a lot of things I have solved through basic things. Back then, I wasn’t very good at the basics yet, or rather, there were many parts I wasn’t thorough enough on. Later, year by year, I realized how important the basics are, and I’ve worked hard to improve them. I practiced the basics literally all the time during the COVID pandemic. I realized once again that if you are good at the basics, you can more easily play what you haven’t been able to play before, which meant a lot to me.

- Your enthusiasm about drumming comes across through your words. Are you happy now you have chosen that instrument?

Akane: (Says firmly) Yes, of course! I’d like to play the drums forever. Until I die (laughs).

- Have you ever regretted your choice?

Akane: Never. Well, it’s true I’m a little jealous to see my bandmates moving around freely and going to the front on a big stage (laughs). However, now I love it so much that I can say even if I were to be born again, I would want to play the drums.

- What makes you love drumming so much?

Akane: What was that? I started drumming when I was in high school, but actually I joined the popular music club to play the guitar back then. I got interested in bands, and I tried guitar first. But I couldn’t play it well, and I lost heart quickly. If I can’t play the guitar, I can play the bass even less, because my hands are small… But then I tried playing the drums, and I played the 8th note rhythm quite easily right there. That was the moment when I realized I was probably suited for drumming. You know, it gets fun once you find something you are good at like that, doesn’t it? So I kept playing the drums, entered a music school, and aimed to become a professional. So, it was good it made me think “I’m suited for this” from the beginning.

- I think such a feeling works positively even if it’s just an assumption.

Akane: You’re right. I was able to play right away and gained confidence like “I might be good at this” (laughs). I was even happier because I felt like “Oh, I can play the drums!” just after giving up playing the guitar.

- In a sense, it was your calling!

Akane: Actually I was originally good at rhythm games. I had rather good reflexes, and I might have developed them through music games without realizing since my childhood.

- I see. Now let’s get back to Band-Maid. You have been doing your activities with the goal of world domination, and recently you have been having really a lot of opportunities to visit the US.

Akane: We’ve been there once every two months or so this year. When I browse my passport, I’m amazed at how often I go there and come back. I didn’t expect I would be going there this often. Also, I feel that the US is a country where people are serious about music or judge it seriously. I think it’s a place where you are judged properly for your music, really strictly, rather than whether you are cute or something, so I’ve gained a lot of confidence through our recognition there.

- On the US tour from October to November last year, you must have felt not only the freedom of the US, where the COVID restrictions were already lifted, but also the toughness of a long tour.

Akane: It was the first time we went around overseas for a full month… We also had to play two or three days in a row in unfamiliar environments, so I was just really worried about my health. In Japan, you can maintain your body regularly, before and after servings, you know. In fact, I can go to the chiropractor near the tour stops. I had made it a peace-of-mind factor, but it’s not available overseas. That was what I worried about most. But I made up my mind, and I thought about how I could take care of myself. Like, to learn to massage and stretch to take care of myself. I think that was one of the reasons why I was able to physically endure the tour. Also, I received advice from a bonesetter in Japan and we members took care of each other according to it. I’ve gained knowledge in that area. Saiki knows very well in that area and she does a lot of things routinely, so we learned from her and worked on it together.

- So, you were able to get through the hard one-month tour by taking good care of yourself, and of your bandmates mutually, is that right?

Akane: Yes, safely. Fortunately, none of us got sick. That also gave me quite a lot of confidence. In addition, I’m simply glad we are all good friends.

- I’ve heard you all cried a lot at the moment when the tour ended, didn’t you?

Akane: Ha ha ha! Yes, we did. As we accomplished it all, we felt relieved, or rather, our tension broke abruptly. Our tension went away and we were like “We finally made it! Now we can go back to Japan!” (laughs) It’s not that we wanted to go back as soon as possible while touring, of course, and on the last day, we were rather sad to leave, actually. Moreover, we were lucky to have great staff, so I remember it more as fun than hardship.

- I think it’s exactly because you completed the tour well that you were able to respond to the sudden offer from The Last Rockstars and that you didn’t feel overly anxious on the North American tour in May.

Akane: You’re right. The Last Rockstars suddenly gave us the offer to go to the US with them, as if to go to another region of Japan, so our sense of travel got a little off (laughs). We accepted it like “Next month in the US? Of course.” I no longer get nervous in that situation. Now I don’t get panicked like “What should I do?” In fact, as for the support for The Last Rockstars, I think it was good we were able to do the serving in the US and not in Japan. I was glad we performed overseas with the musicians we respect, and it was a precious experience we rarely get to have. I felt that an experience like that was possible only because we are Band-Maid.

- The North American tour in May included three festival appearances, so it must have been full of variety. Did you go on the tour without any anxiety then?

Akane: I wasn’t completely free from anxiety, of course, but after all, we had already completed the October tour last year, and I was confident that we could do anything now that we had overcome that tour. And we are going to the US again this August, so I have left my suitcase out (laughs).

- So, you don’t find it hard to live a travel-filled life, going back and forth between Japan and overseas, do you?

Akane: Right. I’m all right because I’m in Band-Maid. Because I’m with those four. My bandmates are all really nice, so we can help each other out, and there’s no one I don’t like or I can’t get along with, so it’s totally fine (laughs). Our staff members are nice too, of course.

- When you are in a group of five, it wouldn’t be surprising you didn’t like at least one of them. And in the case of your band, it’s not that you are all alike or you all have a lot in common.

Akane: We have totally different personalities.

- Why do you think you all get along with each other?

Akane: Hmm. The first answer that comes to my mind is that they all have a nice personality. They are all really nice, hardworking, and strict with themselves. That’s why we can respect each other. I believe you have to be so. I think I work strictly with myself, but seeing my bandmates, there are so many moments when I think they are working even harder than me. So I definitely don’t want to lag behind the four of them, and I don’t want them to feel like I don’t practice enough. After all, I always have the feeling that I don’t want to lose their trust on me, and that’s exactly why I can practice hard and I can be strict with myself. I think that’s what has made us Band-Maid grow. If you give up and say “I can’t do that”, you will stop challenging yourself, and you won’t be able to achieve what you could achieve if you tried hard, you know. We Band-Maid have a strictness that doesn’t allow you to do so.

- You have a great relationship to improve each other. I think it’s wonderful you maintain such a relationship even though your band didn’t start out as a friend group.

Akane: It certainly feels a little strange. Well, me and Kanami had played together several times before, and I also knew Misa, but we hadn’t played music together this firmly. As for Kobato and Saiki, we literally started with “Nice to meet you”. As for us instrumentalists, actually I had talked with Kanami like “It would be nice to do a band together”, and also with Misa, so it was good there had been already two connections. If we instrumentalists had been complete strangers to each other, things might have been different.

- What was the reason why you wanted to work with Kanami-san at that time?

Akane: Kanami told me she wanted to do an all-female band with me. At that time, we each belonged to different bands, and I was in a band with men, but I was very glad she said she wanted to work with me. After that, I started playing in a music bar without being in a band, but I realized I’m not suited for supporting activities, and I grew to want to form a band again. I wanted to talk in a circle seriously with others as a band member rather than to step back as a support musician. So, the formation of Band-Maid felt like a realization of what me and Kanami had talked about before.

- People often say they want to be a band member rather than a session musician. Is that close to your thinking?

Akane: Yes, I’m perfectly that type.

- Akane-san, I clearly see that you played the role of connecting all the members at the starting point of Band-Maid. You were like a relay point.

Akane: Yes. Among us instrumentalists, it felt like I was in the middle, when it comes to connections.

- Kobato-san joined your circle of three, and then Saiki-san joined there. Saiki-san told me about her first impression of you at that time that you were cheerful and kind enough to notice her shyness immediately and talk to her thoughtfully.

Akane: I clearly remember that too, including what we talked about first.

- She didn’t look like the type who speaks up first, so you approached her first, didn’t you?

Akane: Yes, that’s right. I’m rather sociable in this band (laughs). So, especially in the beginning, I kept in mind to talk to her. Even so, she was pretty difficult to communicate with at first, because I had never seen anyone as shy as her (laughs).

- Oh, she was seriously shy like that!

Akane: Yes, that was quite serious (laughs). She also looked frightened. Also, personally, I even felt sorry for her because the three of us instrumentalists were already friends. It was the same with Kobato, though. I was already friends with Kanami and Misa, so I consciously avoided making an exclusive atmosphere there. Anyway, I think Saiki was really shy by any standard at that time (laughs).

- Ten years have passed since then, and now you are touring Japan and the US alternately, and at the end awaits the Yokohama Arena serving. Akane-san, do you have any emotional attachment to Yokohama Arena as a venue?

Akane: Actually, Yokohama Arena was the first place where I went to see a band live. When I was an 8th grader, a friend of mine who liked Orange Range asked me to go to see them live together. At that time, I had never been to any live show before, and that was my first time. For me, that place still has a strong impression of the experience. I remember that time very vividly.

- So, it was your very first live show experience, rather than to be surprised at the venue size. It must have been shocking.

Akane: Before that, I hadn’t been to even a tiny live music club, so I didn’t even know what kind of place bands usually play live at. However, when I entered there, its sheer size surprised me, and moreover, my seat was in the front, pretty near the stage. While watching the show there, I felt “A band’s live show is so cool!” and that made me want to play in a band myself.

- If so, Yokohama Arena was the very starting point of your destiny?!

Akane: Yes, actually. I was really overwhelmed that time, like “This is what a live show is like!” That inspired me to go to festivals and a lot of live music clubs that same year. But the first impression I got at Yokohama Arena was so strong, and I thought, even at that time, “It would be fun to be on that stage!” I never imagined I would be really standing there, of course (laughs). Anyway, I think a kind of dream for the big stage was planted in me that time.

- How do you feel about the reality that you will be finally on that stage?

Akane: Honestly, I still find it a little hard to believe myself. It feels like “Will I be really standing on that stage?” So, I think I won’t feel it real until the day of the show. I’ve been to several concerts at Yokohama Arena since the first time, and moreover, I used to go around there often because it was close to my route to high school. I was already in a band when I was in high school, and I frequently saw that place up close then. That’s rather why it doesn’t feel real that I will play there.

- So, it was a place so close yet so far away.

Akane: Yes, that’s how I felt. Also, there’s a studio inside Yokohama Arena, and I used to practice there often when I was in high school. So I used to visit that area really a lot. It was the place I went most often when I started playing in a band, so I still can’t believe I’ll be playing there. I’m from Kobe, but I spent the longest time in Yokohama. So, after we officially decided to perform there, all my high school memories came flooding back.

- If your memories come back like that, you might get so emotional that you will shed tears on stage.

Akane: That’s possible. I think Kanami will be the first, though (laughs). But I can’t imagine at all how I will be feeling that day. Now, I’m looking forward to that day coming, while remembering a lot of things in my school days.

- Then, what feeling do you want to have after finishing the tour final at Yokohama Arena?

Akane: Above all, I’d like to make the serving itself a great success, but it would be nice if I could feel like “So, I wonder where to play next?” By the way, there is Nissan Stadium right in front of Yokohama Arena! (laughs)

- Wow, you just named a great place!

Akane: When it comes to a big venue in Shin-Yokohama, that stadium is it, you know. After experiencing Yokohama Arena and gaining confidence in performing at a big venue, I literally would like us to be able to go on an arena tour, and beyond that, I think we will be seeing a stadium.

- Your next big goal is in sight. So, you think naturally that Yokohama Arena is a milestone on the 10th anniversary of the band but not your final destination, don’t you?

Akane: That’s right. I think we will continue to clear hurdles one by one.

- And what do you think your world domination should be like in the future?

Akane: Even though we talk about world domination, in reality there are still a lot more countries we’ve never been to, so first of all, I would like us to go to more and more places we’ve never been to and perform at a lot of big festivals. We actually performed at several festivals in the US, and that always makes me realize their scale is on another level compared to those in Japan. Overseas tours have a lot of things you can’t experience in Japan, and there are also live music clubs you can’t imagine in Japan. Like, a venue with bowling alleys on the side for some reason (laughs). It feels so free. Moreover, the free atmosphere of the audience makes us kind of free. We can do whatever we want to do there, in a good sense, so we feel relaxed and we can do servings with a really liberated feeling. I’m really thankful I can have so many experiences I wouldn’t be able to have in Japan, and I’d like to continue to have more and more experiences while visiting countries I don’t know yet and places I don’t know yet.

- So, even after 10 years of experience, you think you still have so many things to experience.

Akane: Yes. I still have lots and lots of things I want to do, and there will be no end to that.
