# Saiki: The process of a shy and introverted girl who just genuinely loved to sing establishing herself with a sense of objectivity

**Date:** 2023-07-31  
**Publication:** Burrn Japan  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/18whu6p/translation_interview_with_saiki_on_burrn_japan/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/18whu6p/translation_interview_with_saiki_on_burrn_japan/)  

---

Does 10 years’ time change a person? The process of a shy and introverted girl who just genuinely loved to sing establishing herself with a sense of objectivity.

One of the elements that symbolizes Band-Maid’s attitude is their unique formation with two frontwomen. It’s also interesting that while their concept originates from Miku Kobato, how to present it to the world is handled by Saiki. Saiki seems to have a very objective viewpoint on how they are seen, and that probably has a great influence on how the band moves forward. How does her sensibility perceive them at the milestone of their 10th anniversary? And how has she changed over the last 10 years as a self-acknowledged naturally shy person?

- I have many questions I would like to ask you, but first of all, please tell us how you feel about the release of the best-of albums to celebrate the 10th anniversary of your band’s formation.

Saiki: It makes me feel the passage of 10 years. We often talk about our past these days, when we think about setlists on tours like this. Like “We had so few songs that we were desperate to play live for an hour” or “It’s unbelievable we have already got more than 100 songs, isn’t it?” Then, the idea of these best-of albums came up and the release was finalized. Maybe because we had such conversations, I strongly felt like “Ah, we’ve been around for 10 years!” More than half of this year has already passed, but I’m just beginning to realize that it has been 10 years since our formation.

- Even if you don’t usually talk about how many years have passed, I guess you are often asked about your 10th anniversary, so you naturally become aware of it, don’t you?

Saiki: Yes. I think it’s simply awesome our career in years is a two-digit number now (laughs). I feel the impact of the two-digit number these days. A lot of things in the past come to my mind one by one.

- I suppose you don’t have much time to talk about your old days when you are busy touring and writing songs alternately.

Saiki: That’s right. We certainly didn’t have much time to do so.

- However, in recent years, time flew a little differently due to the COVID pandemic, and you must have talked about how things had been before, as things that had stagnated gradually came back to normal.

Saiki: Exactly. We often talked about that. Then, we began to talk about our old days, and I gradually began to really feel it’s been 10 years since our formation. The Tokyo Garden Theater show (on January 9) was really the beginning of our 10th anniversary year, or the first show of the flow of events, so I was pretty fired up. Last year, we couldn’t do as many servings as we hoped… We had hoped to tour more extensively and enter our 10th anniversary year, but we couldn’t make it due to the uncontrollable reason. It wasn’t a blank period, but we didn’t perform live for such a long time that I felt very nostalgic even for things only a few years back. So, Garden Theater might not have been the kind of show I had expected for the start of our 10th anniversary. However, we actually performed there, started the tour from Kyushu, and went to the US… Looking back on the flow of things up to now, I’d say that was so like Band-Maid, or rather, so like the vocalist Saiki of Band-Maid. It made me remember that I tend to be too fired up in the beginning. That’s my impression of our 10th anniversary.

- Just now you said “so like the vocalist Saiki of Band-Maid”. Is it different from simply saying “so like me”?

Saiki: It feels a little different. I guess we members all have such a part in ourselves. I’m definitely Saiki of Band-Maid as I talk like this now, but I think I’m more aggressive on stage (laughs).

- I knew that’s the point, you’re the queen!

Saiki: Ha ha ha! On stage, I’m somehow aggressive as if I’m armed.

- Have you become like that naturally, rather than consciously trying to?

Saiki: Yes, exactly. Originally, I just loved to sing, but more and more people have accepted my singing, and I’m fortunate to have great bandmates, who all love my singing voice thankfully… I guess I gained confidence through that. Like, I don’t just love to sing anymore. I don’t have a specific role model, but without realizing, I began to aim for a persona I personally think I’ll be able to be. That’s why I work out very hard (laughs).

- What makes you laugh there?

Saiki: My bandmates tease me about that, such as during the tour. I don’t think they used to say that so much before, but now I hear them say “Saiki is ripped” or something (laughs). I’m like “When did I belong to that category?” I realized that my love of workout is so well known, or so well ingrained in their mind that they naturally say that. Well, I think I might be ripped myself, though (laughs).

- Is your workout one of the means to further strengthen your confidence?

Saiki: Yes, you’re right. I feel it works. Recently, there was one thing about my own change I realized again. I saw my mother and father for the first time in a long time recently. They came visit me in Tokyo. They were like “Good job on your US tour” and we began to talk about our 10th anniversary, naturally. According to my mother, who raised me, she never imagined I would become like this. She was like “You weren’t the kind of girl who can stand in front of people”, so I countered like “Yes, I can!” (laughs)

- Of course you want to counter that.

Saiki: However, that conversation also made me think “Oh, maybe I wasn’t the type who I am”. I thought I’ve changed gradually like this thanks to Band-Maid. I think all the five of us have the feeling like “I want to be like this for the band”. As the years went by, I established my position or role in our teamwork, and that’s probably why I often think about how to act smoothly. All my bandmates must have experienced such changes too, and in my case, I feel I’ve gradually changed like this over the last 10 years.

- Regardless of whether it’s long or short, 10 years’ time changes you, is that right?

Saiki: Yes, it really changes you. You will be able to do something you can’t do now even though you want to. Like, you can totally change in 10 years.

- Were you really not good at standing in front of people in your childhood, as your mother says?

Saiki: I really couldn’t. I was more than just shy and I almost wanted to hide my existence. Like “I’m not here” (laughs). Even if someone called me like “Come here”, my feet couldn’t move in that direction. I was actually that type of person, and I remember that myself. That said, I’m still pretty shy (laughs). So I’m always grateful to my bandmates for that. They have the atmosphere of “Come on with us!” In that sense, the old me is not completely gone. The me who doesn’t want to go to front is still there, but a different side of me has emerged over the last 10 years. I think that’s what happened.

- So, at least when you are being Saiki of Band-Maid, you can be strong, you can stand in front of people, and you can rile them up.

Saiki: Yes, I think that’s the difference. I think so when I watch videos of our servings. There are almost no restrictions on video recording overseas, so we can watch our own concerts on our masters and princesses’ posts on social media every time. When I watch those videos, I often say to myself, “How can I say this?!” or I’m surprised like “I’m riling the audience up this much!” It’s not that I’ve forgotten that side of me, but watching myself in videos objectively often makes me feel like “This doesn’t look like me”.

- That’s interesting. I suppose it’s like seeing a different you, another you.

Saiki: Yes, it feels so.

- In other words, is it something like establishing your second personality over the last 10 years?

Saiki: You can get another personality if you have 10 years (laughs). It would be a big problem if I were to get any more personalities (laughs). In conclusion, I’d say I’ve become able to see more clearly how I should be at each moment.

- One thing I have noticed from your words in the past interviews is that you really see the whole picture, such as the presentation of the band and the artwork. You think very well about how to put forth the band. I think you can do it because you can see Band-Maid from a very objective viewpoint.

Saiki: Oh, I see. That’s possible. Actually, Kanami always praises me for that. For my sense of objectivity.

- In fact, I’ve heard her say “There will be no problem if I write music as Saiki-sensei tells me”. She says that you tell her what kind of song would be necessary next and that gives her inspirations to start composing.

Saiki: Tee hee. That’s nice to hear.

- I think you can actually say that because you have a very clear idea of how you want the band to be seen. In addition, you can make suggestions like “Let’s change it more like this so that we’ll be seen like this”.

Saiki: That’s exactly what I think about. How we want to be seen… as a band. There must be something on stage only we can do, so I’d like to tell them that they can see something they have never seen before, and I always want to surprise them. I think being surprised or thrilled is a real physiological response, and it will be more memorable when it’s accompanied by such a thing. So, in short, I want us to remain in their memories. I don’t want them to forget us. Like, once they see us, they will never forget us. That’s certainly what I’m aiming for. I’m happier when I see someone again than when I see them for the first time, so maybe I just want to do what makes me happy (laughs).

- Well, I think that’s a natural feeling. Also, you must have felt how hard it was to see people again when you restarted concert activities.

Saiki: I felt it really a lot. I also felt nostalgic.

- During the COVID pandemic, you guys actively worked on live streaming and I’m sure you achieved certain results, but I’d say “normal” concerts still make a difference.

Saiki: Yes, they make a difference. It feels like my body gets energetic through servings. I’ve found I want to sing a lot from my diaphragm, after all (laughs). That makes me more and more energetic or positive. It might be my reaction against the pandemic, though.

- As far as you have the desire to do something memorable and something surprising, it will make a big difference whether you can feel their response on the spot or not.

Saiki: Exactly. You know, there are soundwaves. I don’t think they come across only through your speaker. The vibrations of live sound you can feel on the spot… I wanted them to hit my body, if I think back now. I think I couldn’t be fully satisfied because those thundering vibrations weren’t there.

- You can’t feel them no matter how high the quality of your live streaming is.

Saiki: Online okyu-ji, as well as servings without cheering, didn’t feel quite right. What should I say, probably, it felt one-sided there. I had an anxiety like we gave 100% but we didn’t receive even 20%. I know I love servings too much myself. I originally love servings, but in the past, I thought my “love level” wasn’t high enough to sing there every day. I never disliked them, but I was just grateful to be able to sing there. But when we couldn’t do them, my desire to do them grew stronger and I realized again how much I loved them. I really love to sing at servings, and I always want to gain something from servings. Our masters and princesses come to see us there, and some of them for the first time. I can make eye contact with those I see again, and I can also try to communicate with those new to us. That connection, or something like playing catch, all becomes my energy. Maybe it’s like a trigger. I realized that the opportunity of a serving was an important trigger for me to think about the near future of Band-Maid such as what to do next or what kind of song to write next, and I realized I really loved it. Considering that, no wonder I felt anxious when we couldn’t do servings. That wasn’t frustration but anxiety. I felt we might be only sending one-sidedly then.

- If you throw something but you don’t get anything back, you can’t know what to throw next. That’s what you mean, isn’t it?

Saiki: Yes. Personally, I have the feeling of wanting to respond as soon as possible. I don’t usually let it sit so long.

- I understand. I thought we were talking about concerts, but I feel as if we are talking about your view on love.

Saiki: Ha ha ha! Like talking about love life (laughs). But you’re right, it’s somewhat similar.

- This just came to my mind by hearing that, but Saiki-san, are you actually the type who feels lonely?

Saiki: I think yes, absolutely. I’m fine when I’m alone on schedule, but when someone is going to visit me, I’m like “When will you arrive?” or “How long can you stay?” (laughs) When I go out drinking with someone, I’m often like “Let’s have another drink”.

- Like, you want reactions, you want to feel that what you are doing reaches someone, you want the proof of that, and you don’t want to be left on read.

Saiki: I certainly hate being left on read once I exchange messages (laughs). It’s OK when I haven’t exchanged anything.

- We would like to get back to your specific activities. As you said earlier, you have been having many opportunities to visit the US suddenly since the North American tour last October. Is that inspiring for you?

Saiki: It’s been extremely inspiring. There have been so many inspiring things. When we went to the US in May, I felt how many people came to see us live for the first time. There were hardcore fans who had come dozens of times or who came to every show, but at some places, first-timers were the majority, and we were surprised like “Are there this many first-timers?!” Before that, we went there also last October, so we had planned to include some older songs we hadn’t played for a while, at first. But there were unexpectedly many first-timers… Well, I guess that was partly because we went to many places for the first time, but anyway we realized there were so many people who hadn’t seen us before, so we made setlists based on recent songs. We also always included a couple of songs we wanted to see their reaction to. As a result, the setlists over there may have been quite different from those in Japan. I asked at the servings like “Anyone seeing us for the first time?” or “How many times have you seen us?” during my MC time with Kanami, and the two of us asked that every time and we were surprised every time, like “This many?!” At the same time, I thought “The US is freaking huge!” (laughs) For example, at some place, there was someone who came to see us from Texas, and I realized the next state was that far away and there were so many people who could only come there. I remember I kept saying “The US is so huge” on the bus (laughs).

- California, which is not a particularly large part of the US, is bigger than Japan, you know.

Saiki: That’s true. Don’t you think it’s awesome? It makes you wonder “What kind of country is this?” (laughs)

- It wasn’t your first time going to the US, so you must have naturally expected the audience would be those who had seen you live before and had been waiting for you. But actually there were so many first-timers, which I think shows how long the COVID pandemic was.

Saiki: I truly thought so. Like, the three years felt so long. I still feel it even after all this time has passed since the pandemic. It was such a long time.

- The fact that a lot of people became interested in Band-Maid in those three years must mean that your live streaming had a great effect.

Saiki: Yes. In that sense, I think it was a good thing that we did online okyu-ji. Now that we are able to tour like this, I feel that again. We made a right decision to keep doing servings, even though those were live streaming.

- It was equally difficult in other countries to go out, and quite a lot of people must have found Band-Maid by chance while looking for something enjoyable on their PC or smartphone.

Saiki: Certainly. Another performer talked to us at a festival on the North American tour in May, and he introduced me the guy next to him like “I know you Band-Maid. This guy is your fan.” I asked like “How did you know about us?” and he was like “TikTok”, so I was like “What?” (laughs) I thought “That’s such a young thing!” (laughs) Anyway, I was so surprised to know that people get to know about bands on TikTok these days.

- You can’t underestimate those things. You Band-Maid update YouTube videos frequently, but it doesn’t look like your main promotional tool. You look like just having fun doing it, but it still properly reaches people, which is amazing.

Saiki: You’re right. In our case, if we are not having fun, that shows up on our faces (laughs). So, I think we can only do what we enjoy doing.

- Simply put, you only do what you want to do, don’t you?

Saiki: Yes, that’s right (laughs).

- I think that’s amazing. If you do a band for 10 years, you will have something external to deal with, and you will have more things you have to do than things you want to do, and that will fray your nerves. Are you completely free from that?

Saiki: Yes. When we do something new, we are kind of anxious at first. However, even if it feels like “We can’t do it yet” or “Why for us?”, we will enjoy it in the end. It’s the same as doing a serving that always ends with “It was so much fun!” Even if we have some anxiety, we will be usually fine once on stage, and that’s often the case with other things too.

- A specific example of live performance you might be anxious about is, say, a festival that feels like an away game for you. I suppose you felt a lot of pressure when you appeared as the first band in the morning at Download Japan last year.

Saiki: Certainly. That was our first festival appearance in a long time, and moreover, it was Download Japan. We were like “Are we the only Japanese artists at such a heavy and loud festival?”

- I imagine you have some anxiety when you have to perform in front of people who are mostly not your fans, such as at Guns N’ Roses’ show in Japan and The Last Rockstars’ show in the US.

Saiki: Yes, we do. So, we make it a short-term goal, while wondering “Can we do it?” We did so for Download Japan, and for the supporting act for Guns N’ Roses as well. As for The Last Rockstars’ show, we were also surprised it wasn’t in Japan but overseas. However, while we tried them like “Will we be all right?”, we had fun doing them in the end. That’s the way we are.

- I think it’s a talent, in a sense, to be able to enjoy something that would give you nervousness and stress, if not adversity.

Saiki: You are probably right. This band definitely has that quality. Not only me but all the five of us… to put it super simply, we have the guts (laughs). We Band-Maid are often told we are good friends, but also told we are like a sports team (laughs). Like, let’s just focus on it.

- The five of you have a very interesting relationship. You don’t look like clingy friends.

Saiki: Right, it feels a little strange.

- Your band wasn’t formed by a group of friends, you know. And Saiki-san, you were the last one to join the band. If you look back on it, the band performed live for the first time 10 years ago in July, and you joined them the following month. Do you remember the first time you met the other four?

Saiki: Yes, I do. I didn’t meet them at once but one by one, though. I think I met Akane first. My impression was that she was just so cheerful. I thought, “She’s so cheerful and nice!” The reason why I met her first is that when I needed to make my first outfit, we all wore the same maid outfits then, and it seems they thought it would be good to make it based on her outfit, considering the overall balance. I had the same height and a similar weight as her, so she was like “Try this first” and I tried on her outfit. Then, she was like “Oh, if we just fix this part a little, you can go with it” and it was done soon. However, at that point, I didn’t know it was a maid outfit. I mean, without an apron and other accessories, it just looked like a black dress. And it had no sleeves. It didn’t look like a typical cute outfit. I just thought the flare part was rather wide (laughs). Later, my outfit came out with various accessories, and when I put them on, I realized like “Oh, it’s a maid outfit!” Then, I saw Kobato and Kanami’s outfits and finally understood like “Oh, that’s what the ‘Maid’ in ‘Band-Maid’ means” (laughs). Anyway, my first impression of Akane was “a cheerful sis who kindly explains everything to me”.

- How about the others?

Saiki: I met Misa next, and I had a vague feeling that I would get along well with her. I thought she probably had a similar taste as mine. I met her for the first time at a studio rehearsal the day before our first serving as a five-piece band. I greeted like “Nice to meet you” to all of them there. Then, I think I talked with her during a break. I could instantly tell she must be shy, because I felt the same vibe as mine (laughs). So we could hardly start a conversation. In Akane’s case, she’s very considerate, or rather, very quick at sensing shyness. So she talked to me all the time. I wouldn’t talk if I wasn’t talked to, so she was like “Saiki, what do you think?” I thought she was truly kind. And as for Misa, I thought “She’s very shy too, I know how she feels” (laughs).

- What did you think about Kanami-san?

Saiki: When we met for the first time, we only greeted, like “Good afternoon”. Then, we talked at her recording, but it was like a studio tour for me, so I was like “Oh, so that’s how you record it” or something. My first impression of her is that she had big eyes (laughs). After a while, I noticed she was very serious and neat person. At some point, I heard her say “Noted with appreciation” and I thought “No one around me has ever talked like that!” She was extremely polite and gave me an impression of being used to working. She felt like an adult, and I thought “She must come from a good school”.

- In a way, it was like people from different schools gathered.

Saiki: Yes, exactly. They were all definitely not the kind of people in my school (laughs).

- Moreover, one of them came from a school of pigeons.

Saiki: Right! That’s the most important. That’s a big problem (laughs). We met for the first time at the studio rehearsal, probably. I just don’t remember exactly, though (laughs). In fact, I really just don’t remember, and last year she was like “I saw you before that” and I thought it was scary (laughs). I thought she had auditioned me secretly. She told me she had come with the manager to take a look at me. Well, I don’t blame her. You have to check how they are dressed, at least. From my standpoint, my first encounter with her was at the studio the day before the serving. At that time, I thought “There came a tiny girl” and “She’s not the kind of person in my school, either”. At that point, I wondered, “Who the heck are we five?” (laughs) “Why the heck do we five gather here?” That was a question from the beginning. It remains a question (laughs).

- You put it boldly.

Saiki: But I think it’s awesome. As for Kobato, at first I thought “She’s quite a character!” Like “She’s so unique. She’s already got her own character!” As for the other three too, I thought they had pretty strong or unique characters. But at the same time, I thought I was seen more so. So I recently asked them about that, like “Didn’t you see me like that?” They all admitted frankly (laughs). Kobato was like “I seriously thought I wouldn’t get along with you”. Like “I seriously wondered what to do”.

- And 10 years have passed since then. It’s interesting that life is about the people you meet.

Saiki: Yes. It’s really magical.

- You complement each other. It seems you fit together perfectly because you are all different.

Saiki: I think that’s true. For example… it feels so refreshing if you solve a puzzle box. When I think of our relationship, it feels similar to a puzzle box. I think our relationship, or our 10 years, wouldn’t have come out like this if it wasn’t intricately intertwined like that.

- It’s exactly because different forms are intricately intertwined that they cannot be easily disassembled.

Saiki: That’s right. Just like a puzzle box, it’s not something you can easily open, and I think we are like this thanks to the time we have spent. So, after all, I think the number of years is an important factor, as the five of us celebrated our 10th anniversary. I also think we’ve had a lot of difficulties too.

- You have had a worthwhile 10 years. Saiki-san, what would be the ideal future for you?

Saiki: Let me see… I hope we will perform Band-Maid music as long as possible. That’s because the sights I’d like to see in the future have become more concrete than before. Actually, it seems we started to say five years ago that we would perform at Yokohama Arena. Considering that, five years have made it possible, or rather, made us Band-Maid grow enough to take the challenge without being considered reckless. I think that’s awesome myself, and I grew to want to see more sights and perform on a bigger stage in the near future. In fact, we already started talking about where to tour next year, and we are thinking of doing it at the next tour final, or on our other special day of the Day of Maid (May 10), or on the day of our formation we’ve never done anything big for so far, or anything. Performing on a big stage on those kind of days is one of our next goals, and we also think it’s about time to release a new album.

- Yes, I eagerly await your album.

Saiki: Ha ha ha! We feel the atmosphere of wanting a new album.

- Your latest full-length album Unseen World was released in January 2021. However, the EP Unleash released last year was almost an album in terms of the amount of music.

Saiki: It turned out so without intention. I talked with someone in charge in our record company about the design of the best-of albums this time, and I had ideas specifically for the best-ofs, like “I’d like to have this kind of cover art” or “I’d like to have this kind of booklet”. When I thought a lot about them like that, I also started to come up with ideas for the next album. I love special CD packages, so it’s fun to think about them like “Can we have something like this?” We’ve been piling up more and more new songs for it, so I’d like to consider the design of the new album as soon as possible.

- So, you have already started thinking about it even before starting the recording process. But certainly, that’s part of an album.

Saiki: Yes, I think so. We try to put our messages on everything we release. As you said earlier, how we want ourselves to be seen is also part of that. I see our work as something more than just music. So I always think about what message to send next year, in two years, and in five years. I’ll never run out of things I want to do.

- How to present the band and what to convey. How to show yourselves to those who are already your fans, those who will come to like you, in Japan and overseas. You will have to think a lot about those things, but I think it’s wonderful that you will never run out of things you want to do.

Saiki: Right, I really won’t run out of them. So, we will keep going. I’m looking forward to our future myself.
