# Miku Kobato: It all started with her 10 years ago. As the one and only personage who started the history of the all-unique Band-Maid, what did she gain in their first decade?

**Date:** 2023-07-31  
**Publication:** Burrn Japan  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17xgmzx/translation_interview_with_miku_kobato_on_burrn/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/17xgmzx/translation_interview_with_miku_kobato_on_burrn/)  

---

Band-Maid have several conventions. As quite a few of you must be unfamiliar with them, I explain just in case. They appeared in 2013 as a rock band dressed in maid outfits, and they call their live shows “servings” and their fans their “masters and princesses”. If you further delve into the band’s origin, Miku Kobato, you will find a crazy concept of “half-human half-pigeon”. Her utterance is always accompanied with the sound “po” at the end for that reason, and surprisingly, she has been consistent with her second nature like that whether in Japan or overseas.

Those who get to know her without knowing the background will be naturally perplexed. It seems she herself was concerned about the fact that her first appearance on our magazine would have a series of “po”, and she asked me “Will it be all right? I’m a little worried, po”. We have no problem, of course. Let’s hear her talk in full at her usual pace.

- This year marks the 10th anniversary of Band-Maid’s formation, and you have been doing various activities for that. As part of that, the two best-ofs that summarize the band’s trajectory are about to be released simultaneously. Frankly, how do you feel about them?

Miku Kobato: I never imagined at all we would release a best-of someday, po. I always had the image that best-ofs come from bands that have been active for a very long time. I’m simply happy our band has been active for long enough to release the best-ofs, and I’m a little thrilled too, po. I’m impressed like “It’s been 10 years since our formation!”, and in addition to that, I’m sure there will be people who try to listen to us in this opportunity, and I’m also sure those who have been supporting us for a long time will be pleased, po.

- Certainly, your longtime fans will be deeply moved like “Band-Maid have come this far!”

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. Moreover, I think it will be a joy for them to have our 10 years so far as something in shape like this, po.

- Kobato-san, from what you said a little while ago, you don’t see yourself as a seasoned musician with a long career yet, do you?

Miku Kobato: No, I don’t, po! I don’t think any of us members see ourselves so, po. Even though we are celebrating our 10th anniversary now, we still remember the beginner’s spirit, and even though we keep running forward, I still don’t feel we’ve run for a long time, po. It feels more like 10 years passed when we realized, po.

- In fact, it doesn’t look like you save your power in order to run long.

Miku Kobato: You’re right, po. In that sense, I don’t think any of us can save our power, po (laughs). Rather, the COVID pandemic finally made us pause or slow down for a while after running forward at full speed, but I don’t think we’ve ever stopped completely in the last 10 years, and I think we’ve been running forward for 10 years without thinking much about pacing, po.

- However, in the making of these best-of albums, for example, you must have felt like you can’t believe how many songs you have written.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. I feel that way not only this time but every time we make an album. Also, when we make a setlist for a serving, we find ourselves talking like “When was the last time we played this song?” more and more often, year by year, po. When we received the proposal for these best-of albums, even though we put a lot of songs in the two volumes, I felt like “Why can we have only this few?” The best-ofs have enough number of songs, of course, and if we included more songs, you would be too full (laughs), but I think it’s one of our strengths that we have a lot more songs we want to include there, po. Before, we used to have fewer songs than we wanted for a setlist, but it feels like it was the other way around when we realized, po.

- In a sense, isn’t it something like setlists without duplicates you would make if you were to do two-day concerts with your best songs?

Miku Kobato: It might be something like that, po. It’s like picking the best of everything. We had a lot of other songs we wanted to include, of course, po. But when it comes to best-of albums, they should be something like “This is Band-Maid!”, so we naturally wanted to include all our signature songs. As a result, we ended up making two volumes where you can find our best parts, po. However, I think we’ve written enough number of songs so far to make another volume if any. We’ve made two volumes we can recommend you to listen to first as an introduction to us, po.

- Yes. They must be great items for those who have become interested in you Band-Maid in the last few years.

Miku Kobato: I think so, po. After all, when we were touring after the COVID pandemic, also on overseas tours, I thought we saw the faces of more and more new masters and princesses.

- Do you remember all the faces of your audience?

Miku Kobato: I can’t remember all of them, of course, po (laughs). But I can tell by their vibe when they see us live, po. You know, first-timers are often perplexed during our MC time (laughs). They are often surprised at the intensity difference between our songs and our MC when they see us for the first time. I don’t think anyone would imagine our talk like that from our music, po. Whenever I, Kobato, say something, some of them are like “Oh? Did I hear the last part wrong?” (laughs) Also, some of them whisper to someone else they are with. That makes me notice either one of them has brought the other, po.

- You also ask the audience from the stage like “Has anyone seen us for the first time?” From their reaction, I can see the first-timers’ ratio is not low at all.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. In fact, in our early days, the same masters and princesses used to come to see us live repeatedly, so compared to that, we feel like it’s changed a lot, po.

- Did your Online Okyu-ji make those new fans come to see you, probably?

Miku Kobato: I suppose that was a big part of it, po. It was hard for us not to be able to do in-person servings for a long time in the COVID pandemic, but it seems there were so many people who watched Online Okyu-ji at home or at a gathering of friends. You can casually watch it at home, you know, po. Even if you don’t have the courage to go to the venue, you can watch Online Okyu-ji at home, even while doing something else. I suppose that worked for us very positively, po. Until then, we had been active mostly as a live band, so honestly, we weren’t so enthusiastic about doing servings online at first, and we didn’t even come up with that idea, but now I think it was good we did it, po.

- It was the last resort under the situation where you couldn’t do concerts, but it turned out to be fruitful in the end.

Miku Kobato: I think it had a lot of benefits for us, po. And it wasn’t just about Japan.

- So, you got a big reaction when you asked like “Has anyone seen us for the first time?” on the North American tour, didn’t you?

Miku Kobato: Yes, we got a great reaction, po. On the North American tour in May, there was a venue where about a half of the audience raised their hands when I asked that, and I was surprised like “Are there this many?!”, po.

- You have been to the US constantly since last October. Is that just as planned?

Miku Kobato: I don’t think any of us expected that, po. Of course we all wanted to go to places we hadn’t been before, and in fact we were like “We’ll be able to go abroad more often when the pandemic is over, po!” but we didn’t expect at all we would go there this frequently, po. We went there in October, and went there again in February as a supporting act for The Last Rockstars, and again in May, and again in August… I never thought we would go there once every three months like this, po. Actually we all talked about it at a rehearsal earlier today like “We’re going abroad again soon, po”.

- It’s more and more like you live in two countries, Japan and the US, isn’t it?

Miku Kobato: Not to that extent, po (laughs), but I don’t think any of us thought we would go there this often, po.

- I think the reason why you keep getting opportunities like this is because of a chain of events where you gain a reputation at a festival that leads you to another festival.

Miku Kobato: I think that’s how things have been connected, and I hope the connection will continue firmly, po. We receive invitations from so many festival, which is surprising even for us. I’m often puzzled by the difference from Japan about that, po.

- The difference from Japan? What kind of difference do you feel, for example?

Miku Kobato: We have opportunities to perform at festivals in Japan, of course, po, but the scale is different. For example, we will be performing at Lollapalooza Chicago in August, po, and when we are on stage at a big overseas festival like that, I feel like “Oh? Are we performing on this big stage right now, po?” The audience’s excitement is on another level too. We’re not treated that importantly at festivals in Japan yet, so I feel a little bit of difference there too, po.

- You must have a lot of enthusiastic fans coming to your solo shows on the US tour. At festivals, on the other hand, you have a diverse audience. How do you think you are seen there?

Miku Kobato: Compared to other performers, we are the smallest, you know, po. In fact, we’re sometimes on stage together with buff guys.

- Do you mean your height by “smallest”?!

Miku Kobato: I simply mean our height, po (laughs). We are small and all girls, almost like no other performers, especially at overseas festivals, so people are often surprised like “What? Those girls are going to perform?”, po. They look at us with curiosity, kind of. However, once our music starts, they really enjoy it together, po. This is the case also for the festivals in May we performed at, but as we went on playing, more and more people came, po. More and more of them came since the moment when we started the first song. That was a common trend at all the festivals, so I realized there must have been a lot of people who became interested in our music there, po. You know, big festivals have a lot of other stages, so I think if you are not hooked after watching us for a moment, you tend to go to another stage or the food area, po. But actually they gathered to our stage as we went on playing, which gave us a lot of confidence, and I felt we were able to communicate with them through music, po.

- That means you were able to attract them with your sound.

Miku Kobato: I think so, po. Especially at overseas festivals, we basically perform without doing MC, so it’s purely about our music… Well, the contrast with our appearance might play a big part too, and I feel they also enjoy that, po.

- You do almost no MC at festivals in Japan either, because your performance time is limited. That’s exactly why those who become interested in you there will be perplexed when they come to your solo show.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. I think that’s why they are like “Oh, wow!” the first time they come to our serving after finding us at a festival, po.

- In that sense, even after 10 years, your contrast hasn’t faded away.

Miku Kobato: We also feel it hasn’t faded away, po. It’s one of our elements we’d like to cherish, po. I’d say it’s been our strongest point since the beginning. The contrast between our music world and ourselves is something like no other, and I hope we will keep it in the future too, po.

- There are other things unique to you Band-Maid, of course. As for your musical transition, the time when you started writing most of your songs must have been a big turning point for you, and your music itself is becoming more and more appealing to those who like hard and heavy music.

Miku Kobato: I’d be happy if it appealed to them, po.

- You have been using the word “hard rock” for your band but not “metal”, and you haven’t emphasized hardness itself as your main characteristic. However, as you became solidified as a band, I think your music became more and more aggressive.

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. The main factor in establishing the Band-Maid music was the encounter with the song Thrill, which made us decide to go in the direction of harder music. And on our own songwriting, I think we became able to see hardness as one of our features and one of our fun things to do, po. We were particular about it initially but we’ve been getting more relaxed in a good sense, and we’ve been increasing types of music we want to play. We talk about hard rock but we also started to play somewhat ballad-like songs and slow songs in our own way, such as PAGE, while we also play songs with intense tutti sections, so we’ve been expanding our range more and more, which has resulted in the form we have now, po. We’ve been saying for a long time that we’d like to establish the Band-Maid genre eventually, po, and whether you see it as hard rock or metal, I think it’s all right if we have made it our own, po.

- Moreover, if you pursue your band’s strong point of contrast, your musical intensity will naturally escalate, won’t it?

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. Also, our playing style is getting more and more technical, and we often paint ourselves into a corner (laughs). In fact, those elements have been increasing, po.

- As the band increased musical intensity and aggressiveness, it must have been important to establish you, Kobato-san, as a guitarist. The number of songs that need more than one guitar has been steadily increasing.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. In fact, I used to just hold my guitar in the first two years or so, honestly, po (laughs).

- You said it so casually!

Miku Kobato: Ha ha ha! Like, I only played long notes like twaang. We had such songs in the beginning. Compared to that… Recently, on our 10th anniversary tour, we’ve been incorporating some of our past songs for the first time in a while, and I sometimes watch videos from back then for reference, po, as a way of remembering how I did it back then. And when I watch it actually, I notice like “Hmm? I played so little, didn’t I?” (laughs) Considering that, I’ve probably grown… of course it wouldn’t be allowed if I hadn’t grown, po, but I think I’ve more or less evolved. I simply think I have more and more things I’m expected to do, po.

- Your band started with four members, and I guess you were surprised when Saiki-san joined to form a twin-vocal group and you were asked to start the guitar, weren’t you?

Miku Kobato: Rather than surprised… At first, we didn’t think of adding a guitar in the first place, po. We simply thought like “Wouldn’t it be interesting to have another vocalist with a cool voice to have a contrast with Kobato’s bright voice?” and decided to have twin vocals, and later, we thought it would be better to have one more guitarist for our band form… We kind of became so step by step. When I decided to pick up the guitar, our songs back then were not so intense and kind of pop rock, and there were a lot of songs without my part, so honestly, I started it like “It will look better-balanced if I hold the guitar, po”. So I wasn’t surprised, but I was simply anxious like “Will I be all right?” because I had never even touched a guitar before, po. Then, our songs got more and more intense beyond my expectation, and I was like “Oh? Somehow I have to play a lot more parts than before, po” (laughs). At first, I started to play it just to keep our balance, but I was more and more often asked for growth as a guitarst. In the beginning, it was simply something I had never done before, so I didn’t even know how to practice it, po. So, of course I was taught by Kanami, and I took lessons from teachers, but honestly, it wasn’t like I started to play the guitar because I loved it so much, so I had an inner conflict along the way, po.

- When you try to learn something new, you may struggle from the beginning, or you may start off well but eventually hit the wall, you know.

Miku Kobato: I think that happens to everyone to some extent, po. I did think like “Why can’t I get better at this even though I play it every day?” sometimes, po. I didn’t hate the guitar, but I didn’t love it passionately either, and it was like “You’ve already started it, right?” However, I didn’t want to give it up. There were quite a few times when I was troubled by those indescribable feelings, po.

- Kobato-san, personality-wise, were you the type who doesn’t want to quit in the middle once started?

Miku Kobato: Actually, I, Kobato, am the type who doesn’t continue for so long (laughs). I tend to fall in and out of love with something quickly, po. When I was in elementary school, I used to take piano lessons for a while, po. I worked on it very actively in the first three months or so, and I learned so intensively that I became able to read sheet music to some extent and play songs I wanted to play just by reading the sheet music. However, once I learned to play the piano like that and attended a recital, my enthusiasm was gone. Then, I quit the lessons myself and went home. I was a kid like that (laughs). So, it’s not like I won’t quit once started, but I’d say I’ll keep going until I’m satisfied. I’ll probably never quit until then, po. I have that kind of personality, po.

- By the way, is it fun to play the guitar now?

Miku Kobato: Facing the guitar has become “normal” rather than “fun” for me, po. It was when I signed an endorsement contract with Zemaitis that I thought of starting to play the guitar seriously. That changed my mindset quite a lot, and I got to think like “I’m signing a contract as a proper guitarist-vocalist, so I just can’t keep doing as what I have been so far, po”. Also, really a lot of people love the Zemaitis brand, so I felt I must respect them and also I must not be slighted by them, po. Like, I got the feeling that I shouldn’t let them say “Why the hell does Zemaitis endorse her?”

- That shows your sense of responsibility and grit.

Miku Kobato: Ha ha ha! I might be more concerned about those kind of things, po. I do my best for myself as well, but more than that, I don’t want to let them say bad things about Zemaitis because of me. I probably tend to think like that, po. But in fact, picking up the guitar has certainly become more and more of a normal thing to do for me, po.

- In a sense, you have become more and more of a musician over the past 10 years. If you are asked about your profession, do you say you are a musician?

Miku Kobato: It depends, po (laughs). But in fact, I say more and more often that I’m a musican or an artist, po. Before, it was a little embarrassing to call myself so, and I also thought “I’m not good enough to say so yet”, but compared to those days, I can say so now, po.

- You should be proud of yourself. By the way, the history of Band-Maid began exactly 10 years ago in July, didn’t it? You did your first live performance that month, and Saiki-san joined in August.

Miku Kobato: Time flies, po. Time flies so fast it’s almost scary, po. This passage of time feels more dense than long, but I do feel like “10 years is this fast?!”, po.

- Initially, your band concept must have been nothing more than maid outfits. At that moment, what did you imagine or expect your band would become in the future?

Miku Kobato: Hmm. I don’t think we imagined that far into the future, po. I, Kobato, was once active as an idol for a while, and I thought “This is not the kind of music I want to do, po”. Then I talked with our current agency like “I want to do some cool music” and “Actually I love maids”, and we were like “How about doing both?” That started with really just an idea, so we didn’t think about the future… We had vague goals like “We want to sell well” or “We want to be famous” from the beginning, which would later lead to our theme of “world domination”, but we never thought specifically about what we would be in the future or where we would perform live, po. So we didn’t see our future. I think we really just worked with the feeling at the moment like “We want to do this”, po.

- So, it was just a series of events where you did your best on something in front of you and went on to the next after clearing the hurdle, wasn’t it?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po, exactly, po.

- Then, you came up with the keyword of “world domination”, and that was significant.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po. Actually there are a lot of foreign people coming to maid cafés, so in that sense, I knew from the beginning that those things would work in the world. That’s where the word came from, but you know, it’s a really strong phrase, po. So, rather than saying it because we definitely wanted to go abroad, we didn’t think that much about it at first, po.

- So, your goal wasn’t to do your activities overseas or to make achievements overseas in the first place. However, your achievements began to exceed those things.

Miku Kobato: We kind of reached a place we didn’t even aim for in the first place. I think we’re moving in a better direction than we ever imagined, po.

- And now, I’m sure you naturally plan ahead, in a good sense. What do you think is necessary to proceed further world domination from now on?

Miku Kobato: This is not only about the festivals I talked about earlier, po, but our recognition in Japan is just not great yet… I’ve been always hoping our name will spread more and more in Japan. I’d like us to be a little more popular in Japan, but I feel it’s not easy to conquer Japan, po. I hope more Japanese people will know about us as a rock band of Japan, po. I know overseas people see us that way, though, po.

- In fact, when you introduce Band-Maid to someone who doesn’t know anything, you say “a rock band popular overseas” more and more often.

Miku Kobato: You know, that’s a pretty common introduction, po. We are very grateful for that, and in fact we are happy to hear that, but I also would like us to be seen as “Band-Maid of Japan”, po.

- By the way, as you mentioned earlier, you were invited as special guests by The Last Rockstars on their US tour.

Miku Kobato: That February thing was really surprising. We can’t thank them enough, po. That was something we had never imagined, po. There were so many things to learn from them, and their way of presenting themselves was just impressive. When we were watching them from offstage, they interacted even with us with the spirit of hospitality. Hyde-san winked at us over here along the way. All of us members were like “Aww!”, po (laughs).

- It’s a common conversation among fans. Like “She met eyes with me just now!” “No, it was with me next to you!”

Miku Kobato: Now I know how it feels, po (laughs). I thought Hyde-san had great charisma as a frontman, po. The same goes for the rest of them, of course. Even though it was a very limited period of time, I learned a lot from them, po.

- I’m sure they wanted to work with a new generation band. From now on, you Band-Maid also will have to lead your next generation.

Miku Kobato: We’d like to become like that someday, but we still have a long way to go for our own growth, and I’d say that’s a bigger issue. I have a lot of things like that on a personal dimension too, so I honestly feel we don’t have the time to pay attention to the younger generation yet, but I do think it would be nice if we could grow and move forward with the new generation, po.

- Yes. This year, you continue your activities with your 10th anniversary as a keyword, and I’m sure that going around live venues all over Japan as a normal thing to do was one of the realities you wanted to bring back. Moreover, this year, your domestic tour started at Kumamoto, where you, Kobato-san, is from, didn’t it?

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po! I was so happy, po. Personally I was very happy we started the tour in Kyushu, where we visited after a long time, and not only that, at Kumamoto, po.

- Did you demand that, like “I hate if the first show is not Kumamoto, po!”, perhaps?

Miku Kobato: No, I can’t say such a thing, po! (laughs) But I’m sure our staff thought about it for me, po. But, you know, I felt a certain nervousness unique to my hometown, and I was nervous like a beginner even though we are celebrating our 10th anniversary (laughs). So I’d really like to do it all over again, po. Above all, on the first day at Kumamoto, we started with my Omajinai Time (segment where Kobato talks), po. But I got so nervous that I totally messed up there. I realized I was still a hatchling just after 10 years of experience, po (laughs). Even at Kumamoto, even when it starts with my Omajinai Time, I’d like to be able to nail it, po (laughs). I’d like to be able to give a wonderful performance without showing nervousness in such cases, po.

- The tour started at Kumamoto, and after a lot of stops here and there in Japan and the US, the final show will be held at Yokohama Arena on November 26. Do you have a picture in your mind already?

Miku Kobato: … I’m not sure yet, po. But I’d say the image is getting more colorful day by day. After all, Yokohama Arena is a place where I’ve been to see a lot of artists. It’s very moving I’ll be on stage there, and also when I went to see someone live there, I wondered “What would I feel if I sing there?” I’ve always watched live performance at big venues while thinking “They must be feeling so good singing there now”, po. So, it feels a little strange I will be standing on stage in several months, and I’m already sure it will be a very special day, po.

- It might be strange to ask this question when you haven’t fully imagined it, but what feeling do you want to have after finishing the Yokohama Arena show?

Miku Kobato: It would be nice if I could just feel “It was fun!” and “It felt so good!”, po. All of us with smiles. It’s something like after completing the US tour last year, but I hope we will feel even happier than that, po.

- I see. So, you felt a sense of accomplishment like that at the end of the North American tour last year, didn’t you? All of you smiling at each other.

Miku Kobato: Far from smiling, we all cried, po (laughs). Right after finishing it, we were like “Ah, it’s over, po!” Even our staff members cried, so I rather couldn’t cry at that moment, po (laughs). I’m always so when everyone cries, po. Rather, tears came out when we were about to take a picture. I seem to be the type whose emotion comes later after calming down a bit (laughs). I might be the same at Yokohama Arena too, but it would be great if we all could share the same good feeling there, po. On the US tour last year, we had a whirlwind of emotions, like “It’s finally over! This is a milestone!”, po, because we hadn’t been able to tour for nearly 3 years, and also simply because it was tough, po. It was our longest US tour ever, for about a month. We were all fine, and we didn’t cancel a single show. You know, at first, we were worried we might not be able to do some of the shows because of trouble such as illness, and that probably made us even more moved when we completed it, po.

- So you had a sense of joy of finishing the difficult journey together, didn’t you?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po. I think Yokohama Arena will give us a different feeling, po, but it will be the conclusion of the series of events on our 10th anniversary, so I hope we will create a great impression by carrying it through to the end, po.

- After concluding the anniversary year in the best possible way, you must be aiming for the next stage. What kind of vision do you have for the future?

Miku Kobato: Hmm. Our first and foremost goal now is to conclude our 10th anniversary properly, but we always want to keep evolving, so while presenting ourselves in the way we’ve done so far, we’d like to increase an area where we can present ourselves in a more advanced way, po.
