# Mission: Domination
BAND-MAID × THE WARNING

**Date:** 2024-07-17  
**Publication:** Massive  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1f6cxo9/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_the_warning/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1f6cxo9/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_the_warning/)  
**Original URL:** [https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GSqADjYa0AAjT9c?format=jpg&name=large](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GSqADjYa0AAjT9c?format=jpg&name=large)  

---

Two all-girl bands from Japan and Mexico gathered in Tokyo! The eight of them, making their dreams of a collab song and a two-band show come true, passionately talk about their mutual respect and resonance.

One day in early June, we visited a recording studio in Tokyo where SHOW THEM, a collab song by Band-Maid and The Warning, was in production. Of course, all the members of the two bands were there. We at Massive couldn’t afford to miss this opportunity. Prepared to be caught in girl talk of the eight of them, we sneaked into the scene.

By the time this is published, more than a month will have passed since “Band-Maid × The Warning Special Show in Japan” at EX Theater Roppongi, but actually this lively conversation took place in the week before the show. The two bands were already completely at home with each other, such as having dinner together, in a friendly atmosphere as if they had no language barrier.

We would be happy if you readers out there could rewind the timeline in your head a little and enjoy the following exchange. Just as a reminder, The Warning is a Mexican band composed of three sisters, Daniela (guitar/vocals), Paulina (drums/vocals), and Alejandra (bass/vocals). In the following text, we will refer to them by their nicknames, Dany, Pau, and Ale.

- Let’s get it started. So, for you The Warning members, this is your first time visiting Japan, isn’t it? What are your first impressions of this country and Tokyo?

Dany: It’s really my first experience here, so naturally I feel great. The first thing that surprised me was…

Pau: Everything is so well organized here. Right?

Dany: Exactly! (laughs)

Pau: And the pace of things is so fast. It’s like everything moves forward at a great speed.

Ale: We all enjoy our stay in Tokyo like that.

- Your sparkling eyes tell us that all of you really enjoy your stay in Japan (laughs).

Miku Kobato: I agree, po. I’m glad The Warning are having fun here, po.

- Moreover, I’m sure it’s special for you that this is not just visiting Japan but collaborating and doing a two-band concert with a band you have a longtime connection with, Band-Maid.

Dany: It’s such a wonderful thing. We met Band-Maid… Was that two years ago?

Ale: Yes, that was in Sacramento, I believe.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po! That was in October 2022, po.

Saiki: It was such a hot day, right?

Dany: Oh, yes! That was at Aftershock Festival. We met there for the first time, and we were like “Awww!”

All: (laughs)

Dany: I was so happy at that time. Two years later, I’m really happy we have the opportunity to create something together like this, and we are actually doing very well.

- You met each other as performers at the same festival. That’s very much of a rock band episode, and at the same time it rather feels like you were destined to meet. In fact, you Band-Maid told us after coming back to Japan that you absolutely wanted to do something together with The Warning someday.

Miku Kobato: We certainly said so, po.

Dany: Wow!

Ale: We felt the same way.

Pau: We have quite a lot of fans who like both bands. They got to know we met Band-Maid there and they always asked us if we were going to do something together. I’m really happy to work on something together like this also because of that.

- What were your first impressions of each other when you met for the first time at the festival?

Miku Kobato: The Warning members came to talk to us first when we were being interviewed at the festival, po. Of course we knew the name of The Warning and who they were, but we never expected them to know about us, so we were so surprised and happy when they came to us like “We know you!”, po. We members had talked about them like “There’s a very cool all-female band” since our appearance at the festival was finalized, but it was so surprising the band we talked about recognized us!

Dany: So, we both felt the same way.

Pau: There’s a bit of a story behind how we knew about Band-Maid. One day in 2018, when we were working on soundcheck, our sound engineer at that time recommended us a song like “Listen to this”, and it was Choose me.

Akane: Wow, that’s awesome!

Pau: We loved it instantly when we listened to it. So we’ve known about Band-Maid since then, and when we met at the festival in 2022, I felt something connected in my mind.

Saiki: If so, we have to thank the engineer for that (laughs).

Dany: Yes! We wanted to see you when you did a show in Mexico, but the timing just wasn’t right. We were disappointed we couldn’t.

Ale: Meanwhile, how did you get to know about us?

Saiki: As Kobato said earlier, we checked out other performers at Aftershock Festival after our appearance was finalized, and the band we got interested in most and loved most was The Warning.

Ale: I’m so glad you thought that way.

Pau: I think you are such a group of amazing musicians. Your musical style is wonderful, and the musicianship of each of you is great too. So we feel honored to be part of the Band-Maid music and so happy to be playing live with you this time.

- Which did you come up with first, to do a show together or to write a song together?

Miku Kobato: Both at almost the same time, po. When we talked for the first time, we were already like “Let’s do something together someday” and “It would be nice to do a show or write a song together”, po. So, we already had those desires then, and we were like “We’d love to if the timing is right!”, po. We’ve had a lot of exchanges since then…

Dany: And finally, now, the timing is right.

- It would be a good opportunity for us to ask about the collab song now. How did you go on writing the song SHOW THEM?

Kanami: We are both hard rock bands, or bands that play songs with a strong rock flavor, so I wrote a song with that in mind, and what I got first was something that felt pretty heavy. However, I felt it would be a little too typical. I didn’t want to make something you would expect like “Isn’t this exactly what we would get if Band-Maid and The Warning collaborate?” Since this is a great opportunity to work together, I wanted it to be something neither of us have done much before, and as a result, it turned out to be like this.

- So, initially you thought of bringing out the best in each band, but you changed your mind and decided to make something different from usual, didn’t you?

Kanami: Yes, that’s right. It’s not a song so fast that Akane would have to kick on and on like crazy, but a song that makes you feel groove and speed and makes you move your body when you listen to it. I grew to want to make the song truly universal in a sense, to make you naturally dance as soon as you hear it live. Also, I was conscious of not making it too dark, because I have the impression that The Warning have many dark-feeling songs and I thought it would be rather interesting if they play a little more open and bright song. I made the song’s foundation like that and proposed it to The Warning.

- So, it’s a song not too heavy, not too dark, and it brings a large audience together. What did you The Warning members think when you hear the song’s foundation for the first time?

Pau: It was very refreshing. It had a lot of vocal melodies we would never come up with, probably because of the different language. I thought the song would showcase the best of both bands.

Dany: When we put our sounds on it and sent it back in the first exchange, we received a message that it felt so much like The Warning. I was so glad to hear that.

Pau: And I think it’s great we are able to work together while having discussions directly like this in the end. You can complete it just by exchanging data, but you would easily have misunderstandings on text messages.

Ale: Yes. It makes a difference that we can communicate face-to-face like this.

Kanami: I’m so glad! I’m relieved to hear your words now (laughs). I was hoping the song would allow each of us to show a new aspect in the end…

Dany: It definitely does. It’s a wonderful song, so we are happy too. It will be a lot of fun to play it live. Now I can’t wait for the concert next week.

Akane: As Kanami said earlier, it’s certainly the type of song we haven’t played before. It’s true we Band-Maid have had some groove-oriented songs in the past, but we haven’t had a song with a simple groove like this, and that was actually the hardest part. Personally, it was another new challenge. Moreover, I’m not the only drummer this time. It was literally my first time playing with another drummer on twin drum kits…

Pau: That’s the same for me!

Akane: I’m so happy I was able to take on such a new challenge with The Warning members.

Pau: My first experience of twin drum kits was so much fun! We received a pretty complete recording, but Akane played it so good that I was worried if I would be able to play it as good as her, in the beginning. But after coming to Japan, I had a lot of fun recording the song, and now I can’t wait for actually playing it live.

Akane: Moreover, Pau-chan recorded it with my drum kit. I was happy about that, and watching her play on my kit was a great learning experience for me as well. It was really interesting we each made totally different sounds. That was so much fun.

Pau: Did you learn anything from my playing? Wow! (laughs) Akane’s kit was very easy to play. But as you can see, I’m short, so I had to adjust the position of a lot of things (laughs).

- This time you have not only twin drum kits but also twin basses, don’t you?

Misa: Yes, it’s pretty rare to have two drummers and two bassists, so when I thought of bass lines, I started with “What should I do?” In the end, I decided to play the melody with movements myself and have Ale-chan play the lower sounds with fuzz and distortion. Then, we went on like Ale-chan came up with various ideas and I came up with phrases that would match her bass.

Kanami: Anyway, the three of The Warning all play their instruments so well!

Akane: And they are so powerful.

Saiki: Everything about them is cool.

Pau: Not really, but I’m very honored to hear you say that.

Ale: It was my first experience of twin basses too, but as Misa said, she plays the melody with movements and I play the lower part, so I think it turned out well balanced.

- And the unique blend of two vocals must be the biggest feature of the song.

Saiki: That’s right. The song’s key was so high in the first place that I felt like “Kanami, how dare you!” (laughs)

Kanami: Whoa!

Dany: I can imagine what you guys said even though I don’t understand Japanese (laughs).

Saiki: Ha ha. It was a pretty big challenge for me. The funny thing is that I thought it was Dany’s key and Dany thought it was mine. Both of us thought so, and we went on recording like “We were both wrong, but let’s work on it together!” Dany was great on the first day in the studio, but she was even louder and cooler on the second day. So I worked hard on it so that I could keep up with her (laughs).

Dany: Yes, the key is very high. Honestly, it was a little tough for me (laughs). So I had to get used to the song properly before my recording, and I was confident I would be able to sing it more powerfully on the second day.

Saiki: I knew the twin vocals would be the main feature of the song, so we went on recording to get a good blend of our voices. When I listened to the finished recording, I found I had my own coolness and Dany had her own, and I think we ended up blending with each other well in the form of a duel. It feels like clashing each other and at the same time like being sisters (laughs). It was a great experience for me, and I also learned a lot from hearing Dany sing in her natural English up close.

Dany: I’m really looking forward to singing the song live, but it will be tough because it has high notes in a row. It might be better for both of us not to talk much before the show that day to save our throats (laughs).

- If there is any problem because of the high key that day, Kanami-san will be to blame.

Dany: Of course! (laughs)

Saiki: But I think it has the newness of us two that Kanami had envisioned and it’s precious you can hear Dany’s high-tone vocals.

Dany: Yes. Of course I sometimes sing high notes, but there’s no The Warning song where I sing high notes all through.

Kanami: Actually, we also had the idea of lowering it a semitone, but I was conscious of the appeal of their voices when they both sing hard near their limits, and I had such an image in mind…

Saiki: Like, is she a sadist? (laughs)

Dany: Ha ha. I agree!

Miku Kobato: Kanami wanted to make both of their voices kind of main vocals, po.

Kanami: Yeah. The chorus has a higher part and a lower part, and I made both parts sound like lead roles.

Dany: Yes, I like that, of course. I was just kidding (laughs).

- Well, I’m now convinced through our conversation that we will hear SHOW THEM at the show next week.

Akane: We’ll play this song, of course!

Pau: I can’t wait!

Miku Kobato: We have to prepare for it from now, po.

Saiki: Yeah, we haven’t played it together yet, so I’m a little nervous.

Ale: I can’t imagine at the moment how it will turn out at the show, either.

Pau: Right, but I’m sure it will be a fun collaboration!

- As Kanami-san said earlier, you The Warning members have very high playing skills even though you are all this young (all of them were born in the 2000s). It seems you have been familiar with various instruments since your childhood. Were you raised in a musical family?

Ale: All of us took piano lessons when we were kids, but our parents are not musicians.

Dany: Right, we weren’t a musical family in particular.

Ale: I’d say we are the first generation in our lineage to pursue a musical career. After the piano, we got the video game Rock Band and really got into it. Actually, that led us to picking up real instruments.

The Band-Maid members: Wow, that’s awesome!

- How did you each choose your instruments to play?

Dany: Because I played the guitar in the game.

Pau: I also played the game and the instrument I was best at was drums.

Dany: I tried the drums too, but Pau was much better than me.

Ale: I watched a lot of concert DVDs and became interested in the variety of instruments. However, I knew about guitar, piano, and drums but I didn’t know what bass was. I wondered “What is a bass?” and that was how I picked it up (laughs). So, for me, the bass was a mysterious instrument.

Misa: That’s interesting! I didn’t know you started it like that.

- All right, the way you encountered your instruments shows your generation. Anyway, it’s very interesting that you chose your instruments based on your own aptitude on Rock Band!

Dany: However, I was a bit confused when I picked up a real guitar for the first time. As you know, it’s different from the game where you play it with buttons, and you have to actually play strings (laughs). And it hurt my fingers.

- By the way, I’ve found something in common between your bands. Both of your bands have performed as a supporting band for Guns N’ Roses.

Pau: Wow!

Miku Kobato: That’s certainly something in common we have, po!

- And something in common more important is that your bands both started in 2013.

Dany: Yeah!

Saiki: You’re right! That’s an interesting coincidence.

- Your bands each celebrated the 10th anniversary last year. How do you The Warning members feel about the changes in the past 10 years? When you went viral on YouTube for the first time, you attracted attention as a “very young all-girl band”. You were literally very young in your early-day videos.

Ale: Yes, we were just kids then. It’s embarrassing now to watch those videos from back then (laughs).

Dany: As for our past 10 years, I’m really full of gratitude for that. That’s the biggest thing.

Pau: I totally agree. To be honest, I didn’t expect we would keep doing a band for this long. I think we are very blessed to be in the position and environment we are in now. And we already have 10 years of experience under our belts.

Miku Kobato: We feel exactly the same way about that, po.

Saiki: Yeah. We really feel the importance of doing something for 10 years too.

Miku Kobato: We also feel the same gratitude, po. We’ve been doing this for 10 years, and we always showed our gratitude first on our 10th Anniversary Tour, so I think we feel exactly the same way about that, po.

Akane: Also, the bond we’ve built over the past 10 years is strong. I believe that’s reflected in our groove. I feel that.

Dany: Yes, your experience comes out in your groove.

- In the case of The Warning, you may have started as a band in 2013, but in a sense, it’s like you were formed when you were born, isn’t it?

Dany: Exactly! (laughs) So in our case, I’d say we’ve naturally built a strong bond since we were born. Rather, I’d like to know how you Band-Maid members met.

Miku Kobato: It all started when I tried to form a band at our current management company, and then, these members gathered, po. So, we started without any relationship with each other before that, and we’re now in our 11th year, po.

Dany: Oh, did you?! I never thought you had started that way, because I can feel your strong sense of unity.

Saiki: We had nothing between us 11 years ago. We’ve kind of gradually developed our bond since then.

Miku Kobato: So, unlike you, we didn’t know each other when we were born, po (laughs).

- You The Warning members have a strong bond as real sisters, and that must be one of your strengths as a band. However, the bond might be so strong in some aspect that other people find it hard to get into your circle, isn’t it?

Pau: You are right, it might be difficult to get into us from the outside, because we are a very tight-knit family before we are a band. However, the three of us respect each other and people around us. We have family connections other than just the three of us.

Dany: We are literally like a big family including our staff. When we go on a tour, we get on the bus with our team including our parents.

Miku Kobato: I felt their strong family vibe when all of them came to this recording together, and I think that’s wonderful, po. While working with them, I really felt they are like one big family including staff members, po.

Pau: I’m glad you feel that way. We have been working on building such a team, and I hope you will see how connected we are also with our sound staff, who will join us at the show.

Miku Kobato: We Band-Maid also have a lot of people around us who are involved in our activities for a long time, and they work as a single team too, po.

Dany: That’s important for any band.

- So both teams will gather at the show on 12th. It will be a great showcase of both sides’ skills. By the way, The Warning’s new album is already completed and will be released soon. The title is “Keep Me Fed”, is that right?

Pau: That’s right! I’m so glad you mention it!

- I have already listened to the songs released in advance of the album, and I feel a great evolution from your past albums. I’m looking forward to listening to all the songs. What do you feel the album is like yourselves?

Pau: Keep Me Fed is our fourth album, and we are very excited about the release. However, the production process was pretty tough. We recorded in between tours, and I once recorded the drums for seven songs in one day and a half.

Akane: Oh, that’s tough!

Pau: While the recording process was tough, I truly fell in love with the songs through the intensive work, and I already have a deep attachment to them. I’m very confident about the overall quality, so I’m really excited about the release in two weeks. (Note: the album will be released worldwide on June 28, and will be available in Japan as import CDs and streaming.)

Dany: We tried various things in this album without being afraid to experiment. We also tried not to overthink, though.

Pau: We have been writing songs since we were kids and that’s what we have done for each album, so we tried to have fun this time. It’s important to be serious about it, but if you do it that way all the time, you will get stuck.

- I think it’s great you enjoy working on such an intensive schedule.

Ale: It really is (laughs).

Pau: So at the same time I feel like “Thank God it’s finally coming out!” (laughs)

Dany: In the past, we always recorded at our producer’s studio, but this time we had him come to our hometown for the recording. So there was certainly a time constraint, but we felt so secure. I think it worked in a positive way.

- You all also showed your acting in the MV of Qué Más Quieres, one of the pre-release singles from the new album. Are you thinking of working in that field too, perhaps?

Saiki: We’ve watched it too. You’re all super cute!

Dany: Thank you! But I can’t imagine myself going into acting.

Pau: Dany was pretty good. Actually, I’m the director of the video. At first we weren’t sure if we would be able to act, but I think we have made something interesting.

Dany: That was our first time truly acting, though.

Miku Kobato: We can’t do proper acting at all, po. So I respect you all, po.

Dany: No, no, acting comes second. Guys, do music first! (laughs)

- Acting aside, it would be great if you each could make a documentary film someday. Both of your bands have lived through far more interesting realities than fictional stories.

Miku Kobato: That would be great, po!

Pau: It would be wonderful if we could make such a film someday.

- And at the moment, you Band-Maid are also working on your next new album, aren’t you?

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po!

Kanami: Every time we release an album, we write songs with the idea of showing some new Band-Maid style, and in fact, the new album has songs of our main style as well as songs that will make you feel a new aspect of us.

Miku Kobato: The new album will be packed with really diverse elements, especially the collab with The Warning members and a collab with Mikey-san of Incubus, po. In that sense, it will have a different type of breadth than our previous albums, including the range of songs, po.

Saiki: Like, it will be broader than ever.

Miku Kobato: Yeah. It will also have a song literally made across borders, so I believe it will be an album with a lot of newness even for ourselves, po.

Saiki: At the same time, the new album will reflect our experience of 10 years a lot.

Ale: I’m excited just by hearing that.

Dany: This year is going to be great for both of us!

- After the shows in Japan, The Warning will appear at a lot of festivals in Europe and then will continue to tour for a long time.

Saiki: That’s really awesome. What do you keep in mind most while on tour?

Pau: I’d say it’s to take care of our health. We have to make sure we get enough rest, but it’s not so easy.

Akane: I feel you!

Miku Kobato: I think you were on tour for a long time even before you came to Japan this time, po, right?

Dany: In our case, we always have a packed schedule. It’s like we do six shows in a week and take one day off, and we repeat that pattern as a matter of course. Sometimes I get so confused that I don’t even know which country I’m in today (laughs). That tends to happen especially in Europe.

Kanami: If so, is it like you are having some rest during this stay in Japan?

Pau: Exactly!

Ale: We fully enjoy our stay here. We also move around from Tokyo.

Miku Kobato: That’s good to hear, po!

- So you can refresh yourselves during your stay in Japan. Anyway, I think the reason why you are so energetic in your activities is because you are aiming for world domination just like Band-Maid.

Miku Kobato: I agree, po. We don’t have exactly the same goal, but I hope both bands will keep going forward just like now, po. You The Warning are truly amazing in the number of tours you do every year, and it’s inspiring to hear your words, po. We’re planning to tour more and more in the future too, and we’ll do our best to keep up with you all.

Kanami: It’s so encouraging that a band like you is working with so much energy. Seeing you all work hard makes us feel like we have to work even harder ourselves.

Saiki: Yeah, it’s really encouraging!

Pau: Thank you. Our goal is the same as yours: world domination!

Ale: To make our music heard by as many people as possible and spread it to the world. That’s our goal.

Pau: Yes. We’d like to connect with people through our music.

- Is there anything you are conscious of or you want to convey as a Mexican band?

Pau: Above all, we’d like to say more and more that Mexico has a thriving rock culture and so many great musicians. As a band from Mexico, we’d like to spread the appeal of our country’s music to the rest of the world even just a little. However, female rock musicians are still a minority, so we hope to be pioneers in the field.

Miku Kobato: We’ve always wanted to lead the way as an all-girl band and we’ve always said that in interviews, so I really understand your feeling, po. And it’s also important for us to be conscious that we are a Japanese band, po, in order to be active worldwide.

Pau: There are many female rock bands, not only in our country, and when I find such bands in festival lineups, it feels very encouraging and makes me think “Yes, we can do it too!” I believe we can go forward thanks to those bands, and in that sense, I’m happy to be connected with Band-Maid like this.

- In the case of The Warning, you have to think about a plan to conquer Japan in the future, don’t you?

Dany: Certainly! This is our first time in Japan, and that alone is exciting, but I’m very happy our solo shows are already sold out. We got to know there are people who like us in this faraway country, and I’d like to spread our music from here.

- You Band-Maid must have felt the same way when you went overseas, didn’t you?

Miku Kobato: Yes, that’s right, po. When we went to Mexico, we performed in a venue bigger than anything we had ever done in Japan, and so many people showed up, so we were surprised ourselves. We were surprised because our music reached the faraway country, po. So I think we really feel the same way, po.

Dany: That’s true. Also, we really want to thank you guys once again. We are happy to be here in Japan for the first time and do our first show with you guys. Thank you so much.

Miku Kobato: I totally agree with you, po. We’re also really happy to be able to do your first show in Japan together, po!

The chat between the eight of them continued lively. The following week, on June 12, their memorable joint show finished with a great success. The song the eight of them performed together at the very end of the show, SHOW THEM, was a rock anthem neither Band-Maid nor The Warning had ever performed just as the two bands admitted, and even though it was literally the first performance ever in the world, it amazingly united the fully packed masters and princesses (Band-Maid fans). That moment made us expect more for their two new albums and made us long for the next opportunity to see them together on stage.
