# Band-Maid’s latest song full of their uniqueness, Protect You

**Date:** 2024-07-20  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1fi83ag/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1fi83ag/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks/)  
**Original URL:** [https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000249192](https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000249192)  

---

Releasing new songs in a row and doing various forms of servings, Band-Maid have recently accelerated their activity even further.

On June 28, they started their Hall Tour from Nagoya, and a week later, on July 5, they released their latest song titled “Protect You”. The song is well known as the ending theme of the TV anime Grendizer U, and it’s also musically interesting because it condenses the band’s unique flavor while having a fresh feel that sets it apart from the other songs of the same lineage. One day in early July, we interviewed the five of them about the latest killer tune, which has been already played at their servings (concerts).

- I was surprised that Protect You was already in the setlist of the Nagoya serving on the first day of the Hall Tour. I imagine it gives you a lot of pressure to play an unreleased new song at a serving for the first time.

Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals): That’s right, po. At first we were planning to play it at the tour final in Yokohama, but Saiki declared “We’ll play it from the first day!” and we were like “Yes, ma’am, po!” (laughs) So we decided to play it from the Nagoya serving, po.

Kanami (guitar): We had been rehearsing Protect You for quite a while. We had decided to be ready to perform it at any time, so each of us had practiced it individually. After that, we are truly completing it through actually playing it live at servings. So you can say we are at that stage right now.

- So, is it hard to really feel that a song is “completed” without actually playing it on stage?

Kanami: Yes. Like the groove, for example. Personally, my playing stances or feelings are different when I practice at home or rehearse and when I actually play it at servings. After all, I think that songs are completed through the process of repeatedly playing live at servings.

Akane (drums): In my case too, I learn what intensity I need for and the way of drumming for a lot of parts of a song only by actually playing it at servings. I can clearly see what’s required of me through the lighting and our masters and princesses’ gestures and expressions when I play it at servings. I can also see when each of us members should stand out, when I should step forward, and when I should step back. I believe I’ll get those things while we keep playing it at servings, so I hope we’ll gradually complete it with our masters and princesses.

- I see. Anyway, what is clear just from the first listen is that the song will be an instant success. Those who listen to it for the first time can easily resonate with it. It has a certain familiarity that makes it feel less like a new song.

Miku Kobato: It starts out with “Ooh la la la la”, which is easy to sing along and has a strong impact, so I think it can get everyone excited or hooked from the very beginning, po. And we actually felt that when we saw our masters and princesses get excited from the stage, po.

Misa (bass): It wasn’t the feeling I usually have when I play a new song for the first time but it was somehow pure fun for me to play it even though I wasn’t used to playing it yet. I instantly knew the song will grow more and more at future servings.

Saiki (vocals): Yeah, it was pure fun.

Miku Kobato: However, it’s a tough song for Saiki because she can’t breathe.

Saiki: No, I can breathe, but I have to keep moving my mouth all through so I can’t help but have my secretion in my mouth (laughs). I mean, my saliva builds up. There’s no good timing to swallow it.

Kanami: Oh, that’s what happens to you!

Saiki: That’s something only vocalists can understand. So from now on, I’m going to find the right timing while doing more and more servings (laughs). Anyway, I got the feeling that the song can easily get people excited. I felt great tightness in the groove woven by our instrumentalists, and I thought it was strength of a band that celebrated the 10th anniversary and went on so many tours like this. Especially when we release an intense song, we’re often told “There are so many highlights to listen to that I don’t know which to listen to”. On the other hand, this song has ear-catching parts for each, like drum beat here, a melodic bass line here, and a guitar tone here… I really feel that’s something only we Band-Maid can do now. The melody and the lyrics over those instruments are also full of Band-Maid’s uniqueness. All the elements are familiar-sounding like that, and I think that’s why they got excited even though they heard it live for the first time.

- That’s a very objective analysis. I think it has power to make people involved when they hear it for the first time, which also applies to the collab song SHOW THEM that you played for the first time with The Warning the other day. Did you want to have such songs?

Saiki: We had been so for a long time, all the time. Since we are musicians playing in a band, I think we tend to write something technically aggressive or something crazy and difficult to understand at the first listen (laughs), but we wanted a song that makes you instantly know it’s ours and makes you dance at the first listen by subtraction in songwriting, so I’m glad we’ve made it real. We each play each role very well, I guess.

Misa: In my case, I’m conscious of dynamics of what to emphasize and what not to, above all. That’s what I’ve been trying to keep in mind for a year or so, not only in this song.

- I see. It’s true many of the Band-Maid songs, especially fast ones, are rich in musical information, but this time, you organized elements by subtraction and that made the song more impressive, didn’t it? Also, the song is the ending theme of the TV anime Grendizer U. The original UFO Robot Grendizer was made in the ’70s, so I’m sure you all didn’t even know the name.

Miku Kobato: We weren’t born yet then, po (laughs).

Kanami: We didn’t know about it. However, when we got the offer, the Grendizer U team gave us quite a few specific requests. They explained to us by referring to past Band-Maid songs, like “We want a song not as intense as that song”, so I remember I was so glad they had listened to our songs pretty deeply, thankfully. In fact, it helps a lot if the requests are specific. Honestly speaking, I had no idea at all about the original Grendizer, so I asked my dad about it like “What’s the story?” (laughs) I developed an image of the song from there, while doing some research precisely because I didn’t know about the anime, and I wrote the song, thinking about how it could make the anime more exciting. As for the story, we received documents about it, so we were able to go on production based on what the story is like.

- I think ending themes are ballads in many cases. This song is rather opposite, but I guess you were conscious of something “ending-theme-like” in some aspects, weren’t you?

Kanami: That’s right. Personally, I don’t have the idea that the ending theme should be a ballad in the first place, and I firmly told them I would like to put Band-Maid elements forward. However, they told us they wanted something with the ending-theme feel, so I made the anime version a little different in the first half. The released Band-Maid song is the same as the one we played at the serving, and the other is for the ending theme of the anime. We created the two versions so that you can enjoy both.

- As for the lyrics, Kobato-san, did you write them based on the story?

Miku Kobato: Yes, that’s right, po. As Kanami said, the anime side gave us quite a few specific requests and nuances this time, and they told us that the ending theme would be not about the protagonist Duke Fleed but about the heroines… I, Kobato, hadn’t watched it before we got the offer, so I did some research on it myself, po. Even though I received documents about the story, it was difficult to grasp the scenes or the original vibe, so I looked for the original manga and the film version for a better understanding. It was pretty hard to get those materials, but I managed to develop an image from there, po. The story has kind of double heroines, the twin sisters of Rubina and Teronna, and they have complicated background settings, po. I wanted to subtly suggest that part of the story in my lyrics and went on writing while thinking more deeply about various requests, po.

- It seems the title “Protect You” itself is not unrelated to those story settings. It’s not “help” or “rescue” but “protect”, so was the nuance of protecting more important?

Miku Kobato: The twin sisters are very strong-minded girls, and they support the protagonist while he supports them too, po. The sisters and the protagonist help each other like that but they are also enemies, and they have their own things to protect. When I wanted to express their strength to live while protecting and fighting, “help” or “rescue” didn’t feel right. I wanted to show their strong will to protect something by themselves, so I chose the word “protect”, po.

- The story seems a little complicated, but the song itself is very easy to get.

Misa: I think the song has a great vibe and it’s so cool you can sing along from the beginning, like “Ooh la la la”. As for my bass line, I wrote it to make the groove with my bass, while taking Saiki’s vocal melody in the chorus into account a lot.

Akane: As for drumming, it’s the blast beat in the intro above all. I tried to give it aggressiveness and impact with a machine-gun-like hammer blast beat. Also, the beats in the first and second choruses have a pretty speedy feel, like snare on downbeat, but in the last chorus, I intentionally avoided snare on downbeat and played the 8th-note rhythm without having too many notes so that we can convey the sense of unity of the band while each standing out. Then, the outro goes back to aggressiveness. That’s how I had dynamics in my drumming.

- Misa-san also talked about dynamics a little while ago, so it’s common in each part, isn’t it? The vocals don’t keep going at full power, either. There are some parts where you don’t sing too strong, aren’t there?

Saiki: That’s right. As you said, in the past, I had a tendency to give it everything I’ve got. I used to do so not to lose to the music. However, when the instrumental tracks were finished, I thought I might be able to sing better to link my singing to the scene of the lyrics by adding more of my own nuance, so the recording was quite a challenge for me. I guess you don’t find my voice so low in the verse just by listening, but actually I go pretty low in some parts, so I was conscious of resonating my voice properly there. The sisters Rubina and Teronna are very strong-willed, and the three of them including the protagonist have a very strong relationship in the story, but I wanted to empathize with the two sisters and I’d say I went through a lot of trial and error in my singing.

- Kanami-san, I feel dynamics in your guitar solo too. It has a flow where an imposing melody develops into a technical part, and I think the imposing melody has power to get listeners hooked.

Kanami: Thank you so much. After all, I’m very conscious of melodiousness every time I write a solo. I think how it starts out is very important. I wanted to create a melody you can hum along to, and at the same time I wanted to show technicality in a Band-Maid song, so I included it as well. That solo is actually pretty difficult. I worked hard on it because I believed that I would be able to level up myself by doing that. As a result, I think it turned out to be a pretty good solo… I believe it’s one of the highlights in the song!

- Yes, when I listen to it, I feel like “Here it comes!” In the end, the song turned out to be rich in dynamics and contrast in various ways, and yet it’s compact. Speaking of compactness, the 90-second version was wonderfully well put together.

Kanami: Honestly, it’s hard every time to make a 90-second version (laughs). It’s very hard to fit any song into 90 seconds. They tend to be a little too short or a little too long. When it’s too short, I can add a little more at the beginning or at the end, but when it’s too long to fit, it’s really hard. This time, I managed to adjust it by adding piano to the intro to give it the ending-theme feel, and I think I created a good vibe in the end, but actually I had reworked it before this form.

- So subtraction was the key there once again. And the music video for the song consists entirely of performance scenes. Grendizer makes no appearance.

Miku Kobato: That’s right, po (laughs). We wanted it to have a strong band feel because of the song’s vibe. However, the performance scenes in elevators, for example, are linked to Grendizer’s world, po, because it’s a story about riding and controlling a robot.

Saiki: That situation where we are surrounded by steel frames is based on the image of where Grendizer is stored, like a hangar.

Miku Kobato: Oh, by the way, that elevator is actually not moving, po. It looks like moving a lot in the video, and I was impressed by the filming techniques, po. Also, the overall color tone is inspired by the color of Grendizer, po.

- I can feel the attention to detail. All right, Bestie, a song cowritten with Mike Einziger of Incubus, was digitally released in April, SHOW THEM, a collab song with The Warning, was played on stage for the first time at the two-band show in June, and now Protect You came out. As new songs came out in a row like this, we can’t help but have more anticipation for your upcoming new album.

Kanami: Thank you so much. Actually, we have finally finished our recording!

- That’s good news. Great job. I would like to hear about the entire album in detail at another time. What kind of album should we expect?

Kanami: The production of the album was a long-term process. Now I don’t even remember when we started (laughs), but in that sense, it contains songs we wrote quite a long time ago, songs we didn’t release because it wasn’t the right time to do so, and also songs we wrote very recently. So, when it comes to composition, it reflects our various changes in the last few years, and I think that makes the album more interesting. I’d say it doesn’t feel cohesive, in a good sense. Each song on it is filled with memories of each period, and I can recall a lot of things, like “That happened when I wrote this song”, “That was when we were touring the US”, “Kobato was doing Cluppo then”, and so on.

Akane: The drums are the first thing to record, and actually I had already recorded more than half of the songs around April last year, so naturally it reminds me of the equipment I used back then and my way of drumming back then. At the mixing the other day, memories came flooding back, like “Oh, this is the sound from back then!” It’s different from my current sound, in a good sense. My sound of last year was my best at that time, and my current sound is my best now. That’s partly because I change my drumming depending on songs, but it’s interesting the difference clearly shows. I hope the difference like that will come across.

Misa: This is related to the dynamics I talked about earlier. In the past, I used to play a lot of “crammed base lines”, but this time, there was a change of mind as a bassist, and there were a lot of different changes, for example, this might be too detailed but I played with 8th notes what I would have played with 16th notes before. Like, I tried to make my sound heavy and ear-catching while not making it too simple. It reflects the things that sprouted during the album production and my growth through that.

Saiki: What I can say for now is… this is something never seen in our past albums, but it has quite a few lyrics written by me (laughs).

All: (applause and cheers)

- I will write “All: applause”.

Saiki: Yes, please (laughs). In fact, that’s what has changed in me over the past two or three years. I think I brought out something unique that Kobato doesn’t have… like bluntness or the “I say what I want to say” attitude, into the Band-Maid lyric world that she has made (laughs). I think that adds color to the album, so I hope you all will look forward to it.

- So does it have the “bring it on!” vibe?

Saiki: Yes. Like, the “shut up and listen!” vibe (laughs).

Kanami: A new word is born! (laughs)

Miku Kobato: In fact, she has added words that I can’t come up with, so I think that has made the album more gorgeous in some aspects, po. This album contains a lot of songs we have nurtured for a long time, and songs we can finally include in an album, like “We’ve already played it live but it’s not on any album!”, so I hope you all will look forward to that, po. Before, when we released an album, it contained a high proportion of newly released songs, po, but this album is something you can enjoy like “Oh, I’ve heard this at a serving”, “I didn’t know the lyrics were like this”, or “I didn’t know the arrangement was actually like this”, po. In that sense, I think it’s an album made in the way we can do only now, po. Moreover, it’s our first album that contains songs cowritten with other artists, po!

Saiki: Yes, it’s the first time in our history. I think you can feel the newness of the album in that sense. The biggest change was… we used to hate to reveal about an album until we release it, right?

Miku Kobato: Yes, po!

Saiki: Like, we released an album, had them listen to it for the first time, and surprised them. On the other hand, now that our servings are back, we’ve nurtured our songs, and we’ve shown the connections with many other artists through that process… So, now we can proudly say in advance, “We’re going to release this!”, or rather, I think it’s an album that makes us do so.

Miku Kobato: Yeah. I believe it’s an album packed with things we can do only now, only a band that has been around for 10 years can do, po!
