# Band-Maid just released Zen, a new song created through Epic Narratives: We’re going forward with full force, po!

**Date:** 2025-01-20  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Yuichi Masuda  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1iw7y15/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks_were/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1iw7y15/translation_interview_with_bandmaid_on_barks_were/)  
**Original URL:** [#https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000253350#](#https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000253350#)  

---

Band-Maid kicked off the year of 2025 with a single titled Zen, the opening theme song for MAPPA’s original TV anime Zenshu airing from January 5. The song feels very Band-Maid but at the same time different from their past signature songs.

As we explored the background story of the song and deep-dived into their gain in 2024, we began to see how great their fulfilling situation is now and their moves in 2025. We interviewed them in the busy days at the end of last year, but as usual, the band’s creative activities didn’t stop even for a moment then.

- We would like to talk mainly about Zen and also about what 2025 will be like for you. First of all, as for the song, it’s the opening theme of the TV anime Zenshu, which title apparently means “to redo everything”. When I listened to it, it felt like having a kinship with Epic Narratives, or more precisely, a close position with Forbidden tale on the album… Am I off base?

Saiki (vocals): The production periods were pretty much the same, so you’re not off base at all.

- I’m relieved (laughs). Saiki-san, you told us that you had asked for a song with many musical developments and Forbiden tale had come out of that. I felt that Zen was another answer to your request. It might have been written exclusively for the tie-in, but the song itself has a dramatic composition, and I felt something in common between them in that respect.

Saiki: In fact, it came out after Forbidden tale as I remember, so I suppose it reflects Kanami’s experience of writing that song.

Kanami (guitar): Yes, it does. Meanwhile, the client told us clearly what kind of song they wanted. They suggested like “It would be ideal if it starts like this and develops like this” using reference songs, so I took that image into account… but ended up somewhat breaking it (laughs).

Saiki: Kanami, you interpreted it in your own way, right?

Kanami: Yeah. As you can imagine, I couldn’t competely follow it, so I interpreted it in my own way and at the same time I wanted to bring out something in the Band-Maid style. Also, when we were going to make a demo melody, Saiki was like… Do you remember?

Saiki: No, I don’t (laughs).

Kanami: It’s rare for you but you were like “I want to make the melody that goes into the chorus like this”… Don’t you remember?

Saiki: I don’t remember at all (laughs).

Miku Kobato (guitar/vocals): This is becoming a comedy skit, po (laughs).

Kanami: I actually thought she might not remember, but she really said so (laughs). She was pretty specific about the melody before the chorus like “I want to go into the chorus like this, so can I change it?” and I was like “No problem”, but that would change the atmosphere before the chorus, and I wondered what to do. So, since the anime’s story itself was isekai, I tried to add samples that would match it, and I think the result was something new. There are times when I change melodies or something based on small requests, of course, but this time I was surprised to get such a specific request. We had never had this kind of melody development and we thought it was refreshing and nice in its own way… We talked like that, remember? (laughs) Check your LINE history! (laughs)

- So, in a sense, the original song was isekai’d through Saiki-san’s suggestion, wasn’t it?

Kanami: Yes, it was. That gave it a new feel, which I think was nice. So I thought it would be interesting if she suggests more and more things to me.

- You guys said earlier that it came out after Forbidden tale. Did you write it after completing all the songs on Epic Narratives?

Akane (drums): No, we wrote it around the same time. I remember recording the drums in parallel.

Kobato: We didn’t have all the songs on the album yet, po. I think we wrote it in the same flow as the songs in the middle stage of the album production, po.

- If so, it’s no wonder the song has a connection with the album. Concerning the song, Saiki-san, you made the official comment like “We wanted to create a song with more of a story” and “We spun the sound with a solid stance, focusing on the melody without being too technical by our instrumentalists”, and the song feels exactly like your words.

Saiki: Actually, that comment was what I summarized after talking with all my bandmates. Akane and Misa emphasized that they had arranged Kanami’s demo so that it would bring out the melody even more, and I was convinced like “I see, I remember talking about that”. The song certainly turns out like that.

- Yes, that’s true. It feels heavy while technicality and speediness are kept modest. Did you each arrange your part with that in mind?

Misa (bass): In my case, yes. I thought this song would need that.

Akane: We had learned through Forbidden tale that we should go with heaviness when we want to bring out the melody in a song. In the case of Zen too, our priority was to make the melody stand out, and she made her bass heavy, so I decided to make my drums heavy too. However, even though us in the rhythm section go with a heavy feel, the song develops as if it was isekai’d from the second verse.

- Yes. The moving bass line is impressive too. It feels like another vocal melody, or rather, a response to the vocal melody, doesn’t it?

Misa: That’s right. The song has such a bass in particular. It moves along with the melody.

Akane: As for the drums, it starts with a rather flat beat but it drastically changes halfway through, with a lot of strokes, and it becomes like composed almost only of fill-ins. That kind of composition itself is pretty new to me. It’s very rare in Band-Maid songs to have an approach of playing fill-ins in a row for eight bars without playing a steady beat, and it may have been my first time connecting phrases this long and playful. I feel that’s something very new.

- There’s a part in the second half where the tempo slows down. Other than that, the tempo is the same, but it feels like the speed changes depending on your playing. Kobato-san, what did you have in mind when working on the song?

Kobato: I’ve been thinking the song has a very clear storyline since Kanami came up with it and I listened to it. So, I, Kobato, thought about how to sing backing vocals and how to show changes with my harmonies, po. This time, Saiki wrote lyrics to it and she also sang the vocal demo herself, including an image of how to sing it, so I was conscious of getting closer to what she wanted for it, po. In short, I wanted to emphasize its storyline with my singing, po.

- I see. Does the title of “Zen” come from the first half of “Zenshu”?

Saiki: Yes, it does. It was a tentative title, or more precisely, it was already titled “Zen” in the demo stage.

Kanami: Saiki liked the title, and someone in the Zenshu team was also like “This title is good”, thankfully.

Akane: Like “Please keep this title”.

Saiki: Yeah. So, we were like “If you like it that much… would you like us to keep it?” (laughs)

- It’s in fact a good title. It somewhat makes you think it might have a double meaning, and I suppose people overseas will take it as some mystical Japanese word related to Zen Buddhism. As for the lyrics, did you write them based on the story of Zenshu?

Saiki: Yes, I wrote them after reading the whole story. I told them I would be grateful if I could see the storyboards in advance, and they sent me all the episodes, so I was like “This is unbelievable, thanks” and had the pleasure of reading them through. Rather than the story itself, I tried to write lyrics that would convey what Zenshu wants to convey through the story. I repeated the same lines in all the choruses without changing anything, because that part has everything I want to convey. In addition, the main character is an animator, so I’ve used their jargons like “page” and “pan up/pan down” here and there, hoping they would become good hooks.

- Yes, those words are ear-catching. What I think is great about the song is that it ended up being a song that seems familiar but never was. You created something new even to you while listening to the anime production team’s requests, which is exactly a dream come true.

Kanami: I also felt the fun of songwriting unique to tie-ins. This time it was for an anime, and I think I was able to come up with something new because it made me imagine how it would be played in the animation and made me try to reflect the anime’s world to it when I wrote it. That’s the difference from when I write a song just for Band-Maid. It made me think of writing a song rather for the anime and yet in the Band-Maid style, and in that sense, the fundamental aspect of songwriting changed a bit, which led to something new. Moreover, I thought of writing something melody-oriented this time, with backing sounds not too technical but somewhat playful, which I hoped would make it very Band-Maid. I wrote the song hoping it would liven up the anime… Well, sorry, I can’t come up with a punch line to this.

All: (laughs)

Kobato: No need to add a punch line there, po (laughs).

- Right, you don’t need a punch line, I totally get what you said (laughs). So, in short, a slight difference at the starting point of songwriting leads to something innovative or fresh, doesn’t it?

Kanami: Exactly!

Akane: Thank you for summarizing it so nicely (laughs).

- Band-Maid singles often have a tie-in. So, every time that happens, it makes you switch or change ideas. I can see that it has very positive effects.

Kanami: Yes, exactly. Thank you so much.

Kobato: You’ve given us a great example of how to tell that story, po (laughs).

Saiki: As for album songs, or songs with no tie-in, we write them primarily for our masters and princesses, you know. That’s also true for tie-in songs, but if it’s for an anime for example, we are also motivated to make something that will please the anime production team or those who hear it through the anime. I think that’s why they naturally become something new.

- And it’s not that you’re asked to do something you don’t want to do as a band.

Saiki: That’s right. All of them literally had a respectful attitude to us and they were like “Sorry but could you make it like this…” We were like “No problem, please feel free to ask us for anything” (laughs).

- It seems like you have established a good relationship between creators (laughs). I suppose the song will be effective at your servings too. Will we be able to hear it at the first serving in 2025?

Saiki: Yes. Our first serving will be in February, and Zenshu will have already broadcast since January, so we will perform it there.

Kobato: This is the first time I’ve heard about that, po! (laughs)

Saiki: Why not?

Kobato: I did think maybe we’ll do it, though, po (laughs).

Saiki: Let’s just do it!

- So it’s confirmed! I never expected you would reach a conclusion here. I’m looking forward to seeing how much presence the song will have at the serving. By the way, as we mentioned it at the beginning, the word “zenshu” apparently means “to redo everything”, and you have similar things in songwriting, don’t you? Like trying out a lot of ideas but redoing everything in the end.

Kanami: I would be extremely shocked if I’m told to redo everything (laughs).

Saiki: That main character was in fact shocked.

Kobato: There was actually a scene like that, and we can really relate to that feeling, po.

Saiki: It would be crazy if we’re told to redo everything, right?

- At any rate, what impresses me is that you Band-Maid don’t stop your creative activities even for a moment. You have announced to release this single after the end of the Zepp Tour and an EP next. So, basically, you have never stopped since the completion of Epic Narratives. In fact, if creating the album has changed anything in your songwriting, what do you think it is?

Kobato: I feel that each song expands our range of music one by one, without any narrowing, po. Now we have a wide variety of medium-tempo songs. The range of songs Kanami-sensei comes up with has been expanding even more, po.

- Sensei, what do you think?

Kanami: To be honest, I’m not completely sure about changes after the album… Have my arrangements changed in any way?

Misa: Rather than changes after the album, we still continue the changes during the album production or pursue them even more now. That expands our range, I think.

Akane: As for the Epic Narratives songs, quite a few of them are medium-tempo songs that make you listen attentively or convey messages to you, and I worked on them with the desire to convey something through sound. When we actually played those songs we wrote with that in mind, the audience’s reaction was so good that I felt like I really grasped something there. The one was such a song in particular. On the tour in November, I felt like I was able to convey what I couldn’t have fully conveyed or expressed before, and talked about that with my bandmates. It means a lot to us that we can convey medium-tempo songs and ballads properly now, and we still keep that feelings when we record or write songs. I have understood my own groove. I had already realized the changes in my drumming during the recordings of Epic Narratives, and I gained confidence on the tour after that, so I’m having a lot of fun now.

Saiki: Great to hear that (laughs).

Kanami: Recordings will keep coming from now. Right now, we have two songs to finish, but we do recordings as planned while making songs at the same time. Moreover, through experiencing Epic Narratives, I’ve started wanting to rearrange some parts of the songs we are recording now. Actually I also wrote the songs for the upcoming EP in parallel with Epic Narratives, but I grew to want to arrange them again after finishing the album. So, I’ll have to work harder on the two ongoing songs to meet the schedule…

- You sounded like grumbling in the last part, though (laughs).

Kanami: Sorry (laughs). Anyway, having made Epic Narratives will certainly expand the width of my arrangements even more in the future, and I hope I can incooporate the interesting points unique to the album into new songs I will write for the upcoming EP.

- When you say you want to arrange them again, that might sound like you are denying the answer you have given once, but that’s not what you mean, is it?

Kanami: You’re right. It just means to improve them. I’m thinking of making them isekai’d. In a sense, it’s to redo everything (laughs).

Kobato: You said a moment ago that you would be shocked if you’re told to redo everything, po (laughs).

Saiki: You might have a hard time for songs you’ve already recorded the drums for.

Akane: For sure!

- So, please redo everything only moderately (laughs). That aside, I can see from what you said that the Zepp Tour in November, while it was short, was really fruitful.

Misa: I’ve always thought so. It didn’t have many shows but I think it was rich in content. Like, the speed of our growth was faster than any previous tours. I wanted to say that today by any means… so I’m glad I’m able to say that (laughs).

- If so, you must be eager to go on more and more tours now. Your 2025 servings will start with a Spin-Off. What do you think about it?

Saiki: We will do Spin-Offs for two days at Liquidroom, and… I haven’t told anyone about this yet, but I’ve been thinking of asking my bandmates to do something crazy (laughs).

Kobato: Actually, our shared schedule has already had an entry of “Saiki’s crazy request”, po (laughs).

Saiki: That’s what we’ve been calling it internally. And what I’m actually thinking of as my crazy request is that I want us to play a medley.

Kobato: Sounds like it will be something crazy, po. We’ll have a hard time, po.

Saiki: So, I’m struggling with BPMs now. I even think it would be OK to change the tempo a little.

- It would be also interesting to connect the songs by inserting session parts.

Saiki: That’ll be nice too. Hey guys, you’ll have to work hard on a lot of things. Thanks in advance (laughs).

Akane: That sounds a lot of fun! And it’s great because that’ll feel exactly like a Spin-Off.

Kobato: I agree, po. Actually we’ve always wanted to play a medley someday, po.

Saiki: That’s partly because I simply have so many songs I want us to play, but mainly because I realized once again how great Epic Narratives was after releasing it and going on the Zepp Tour with changing setlists. The tour was only possible because the album had many great songs. However, at a Spin-Off, our masters and princesses will be like “We want to hear that song!” for a lot of songs, and we have a lot of songs we want to play ourselves, so I hope we’ll play a lot.

Kobato: We’re looking forward to it ourselves, po!

- I saw you live at the two Zepp Haneda shows on the Zepp Tour, and I felt like you really made use of session parts there. They weren’t aimed at showing solos, but they connected songs in interesting ways, and above all, it was impressive to see you all having fun playing them. I thought that was only possible because you all interpret your songs in the same way, and that made me think those sessions could lead to ideas for new songs. Don’t you think so?

Kanami: Yes, that’s right. Someone told me about an unreleased song the other day that it reminded him of sessions at Yokohama Arena. That was an unexpected comment for me, so I was like “What?” at that moment, but I realized the song probably reflected my thought in the writing process of those session parts, like “This will liven up the audience”.

- It’s fantastic you reflected it to your songs unconsciously. The moving bass and the development with rich fill-ins of Zen reminded me of the session scenes and made me think the song made full use of the band’s current state. Now, 2024 will be over soon, and what kind of year do you want 2025 to be?

Saiki: I think we have expressed our determination for the future well with Epic Narratives, but I know we are not supposed to finish just with that. We have more and more songs to deliver to our masters and princesses in the future, so I hope they won’t miss that and will keep up with us. In 2025, we will go on another tour including Misa’s hometown of Okayama, and there will also be things that we haven’t announced yet…

Kobato: Before that, we will do acoustic okyuji at Billboard Live Tokyo and Billboard Live Osaka, po. In that sense, you will be able to enjoy a different Band-Maid than usual in 2025 again, po.

Saiki: The acoustic okyuji are available only for omeisyu-sama [fan club members], but I will be happy if they have a good time. Personally, Billboard is a place I’ve been dreaming of.

Kobato: I hope they will see us live while taking their time to enjoy the meal in a place a little different than usual, po.

Saiki: And new songs will appear and new dazzling setlists will come on the upcoming tour for sure. We’re determined to go for it.

Misa: Also, the upcoming tour will have more shows than 2024, and I’d like to work hard to grow even more while cherishing each and every serving.

Kanami: It occurred to me just now that we should practice instrumental songs.

Akane: You’re right. Especially ones we haven’t played recently.

- Your conversation sounds like you are predicting exam questions.

Kobato: You’re right, this sounds like we’re preparing for an exam, po.

Kanami: We might be like “That song doesn’t make it to the setlist even though we’ve practiced it hard!” (laughs)

Akane: Anyway, as Misa said earlier, the Zepp Tour in November was so rich in content that we learned a lot of things, and I’d like to make use of them in 2025. With this many opportunities, I think we can naturally grow even more, and I hope we will grasp and absorb as many things as possible in a short time.

Saiki: At the same time, we’d like to work more eagerly on activities outside of Japan, because we couldn’t do it in 2024.

Kobato: That’s right, po. We’re going forward with full force, po!

- We are looking forward to that. In fact, I’d say it’s very symbolic that your new year will start with a fresh song like Zen.

Saiki: I agree. I feel like a new wind is blowing for us. So, those of you who read this, please take good care of your health and keep going with us in 2025! ■
