# The reason why Band-Maid Kanami’s signature PRS is just like a Private Stock

**Date:** 2025-02-18  
**Publication:** Barks  
**Interviewer:** Tetsuya Karasumaru  **Translator:** t-shinji  
**Translation URL:** [https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1j6lcpn/translation_interview_with_kanami_on_barks_the/](https://www.reddit.com/r/BandMaid/comments/1j6lcpn/translation_interview_with_kanami_on_barks_the/)  
**Original URL:** [https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000253861](https://www.barks.jp/news/?id=1000253861)  

---

Looking back, it was 2017 when she came across a Paul Reed Smith guitar and fell in love with it almost at first sight. She has been admiring PRS for seven years, and now, the two are in mutual love. She is Kanami, the lead guitarist of Band-Maid, and the Kanami Limited Edition, the first-ever Japanese guitarist signature model, is created for her.

You can clearly see from its specifications that she deeply understands the appeal of PRS and has selected practical specifications in order to bring out its greatness to the fullest. A Custom 24 equipped with an ebony fretboard, 85/15 pickups, the Custom 24-08 circuit, Brushstroke inlays on the fretboard, a glittering quilted maple top, and manly smoked black hardware. It’s just impeccable.

While named “Kanami Limited Edition”, the guitar itself stands out in quality and capability to be used for any musical style or any live performance. It has perfect versatility even though it’s produced for just one female guitarist.

Let’s take a closer loook at her encounter with PRS, the appeal of PRS, and the story from the purchase of her Private Stock to the birth of the Kanami Limited Edition.

- The Kanami Limited Edition has finally been released. It seems that shipments can’t keep up with orders for now, however.

Kanami: The very first batch was released, but I’ve heard that production is currently behind schedule and they will be released as soon as they are completed.

- How many PRS guitars do you have now?

Kanami: A purple one, a Trampas Green, a Private Stock, a brown one, the Kanami model… and a 35th Anniversary model, which is my main guitar. So I have six of them.

- Don’t you have a spare for the Kanami Limited Edition?

Kanami: They gave me one, and I’m thinking of buying another one myself, so I will have two in total.

- Oh, are you buying one yourself?

Kanami: Yes, because it’s extremely good. It’s such a good guitar that I think I should definitely have another one of them, so I asked PRS if it would be OK to buy one myself. It hasn’t arrived yet, though.

- Does it come with the exact same specs?

Kanami: It’s precisely the Kanami Limited Edition. I’m buying one they are selling now as it is, because it’s so good.

- Before you started playing a PRS, you used to play other guitars such as Addictone, didn’t you?

Kanami: Yes, I also used to play a Gibson, among many others. I used to play a Flying V for some time and an Ibanez for some time. In the beginning, I used to play a Fernandes, so I played a lot of different guitars.

- Do you remember how you became interested in PRS in that time?

Kanami: Actually, when I started playing the guitar, I came to really love Santana.

- A young girl like you loved Santana?

Kanami: Yes, many people are surprised (laughs). I listened to a lot of different music to learn about music in high school, and I was like “What’s this? This is the coolest… Who’s this?” when I listened to Santana. He played a PRS, so I had always thought “I’ll play a PRS someday…” since high school.

- So, you came across PRS a long time ago.

Kanami: Yes, it was like a guitar I admired, but it was just too expensive for me as a student.

- If so, what made you actually get a PRS?

Kanami: There was a time when I asked myself which guitar I should use for the future Band-Maid considering our musical direction, around 2017, and I borrowed various guitars from my guitar teacher and tried them. I tried a lot of guitars such as a Les Paul Custom and a Strat, and when I tried a PRS, I was like “What on earth is this guitar?”

- Was it that good?

Kanami: I was impressed by this feeling of it fitting perfectly in my hand, and it felt great again when I took it to a band rehearsal. So, I played it at servings too and thought that PRS would perfectly fit Band-Maid’s future musical direction. My bandmates were also like “This guitar is nice”. That made me play PRS since then.

- I suppose PRS was outstanding for you in every aspect, from sound, looks, to playability.

Kanami: It clicked with me. I did love other guitars too, of course, but I thought PRS was the best for the band.

- How about Miku Kobato at that time?…

Kanami: She was already playing a Zemaitis then.

- I’m wondering why you thought PRS was the best for the band. What does that mean?

Kanami: No wonder you wonder (laughs). I don’t feel like playing the guitar in any band other than Band-Maid, and I believe Band-Maid will be my last band of my life. I’m in charge of writing music, and concerning that, when I write Band-Maid songs, I have a certain direction of songwriting and a certain image of a song in mind, and PRS exactly represented the sound image I had. To be more specific, things like the mid-range feel and the sustain length… Also, I’m the lead guitarist, even though I occasionally play comping, so when I thought about which guitar would be good for playing lead phrases, PRS was it.

- Uh-huh, I got it.

Kanami: At servings, Kobato plays comping for us, and I think PRS clicked with me because I was thinking specifically about how it would go along with the comping sound of her Zemaitis.

- Listening to your story, it feels like PRS was the only choice.

Kanami: That’s right. I borrowed really a lot of guitars from my teacher, and this clicked with me most, so probably I had no other choice.

- Stable tuning, delicate tones, no neck wobble, a right chord feel, great playability, and these looks… PRS is certainly a miraculous guitar that’s high-grade and flawless in every aspect.

Kanami: I totally agree. I really think so.

- How did you choose your first PRS?

Kanami: I just chose it intuitively. I visited a PRS warehouse with my guitar teacher and some others, and there were just too many guitars (laughs). I really couldn’t decide which one to pick, but they told me to forget about everything for a moment and follow my intuition, so I did so.

- And that was the Trampas Green Custom 24 guitar.

Kanami: Partly because I love green, but mainly because it was easy to play and made me feel “This is it”. I didn’t know much about guitars back then, so I didn’t even know it had a korina body.

- Oh, is the back made of korina?

Kanami: Yes, it’s rare, isn’t it? The sound changes quite a bit just because the body is not mahogany, so I still use it at recordings for the different sound and also at servings for some songs. I thought “To the me back then, you chose a nice guitar♡” (laughs).

- What’s the difference in sound between a mahogany back and a korina back?

Kanami: Korina produces a brighter sound, like less in the low range and more in the mid-high range. I sometimes use it for gorgeous phrases, clean tones, and in brighter songs rather than in heavier songs, and… what should I say… when I want to add something a little harsh and edgy.

- That’s a nice variation.

Kanami: Yes, I think so. PRS guitars have individual sounds even with the same body or material, so they are very useful. Almost all my guitars are equipped with PRS 85/15 pickups, but I replaced the pickups of the Trampas Green with different ones, and that might be part of the reason why it has a different sound.


- It seems to me that the Private Stock you purchased the other day had a big influence on the birth of the Kanami Limited Edition this time…

Kanami: That’s exactly right.

- What made you buy a Private Stock in the first place?

Kanami: You know, PRS Private Stocks are super-high-end guitars and displayed in a showcase at music stores, and their price is astronomical (laughs).

- Yes, I know. They are more than having a different order of magnitude.

Kanami: So, I thought of it as a kind of goal in my life. I was like “I’ll have them make one someday” since I started playing a PRS. Then, we did a serving at Yokohama Arena in November 2023, and the venue itself was my biggest goal at that time, so I bought it as a kind of reward to myself for doing my best, or rather, for achieving the goal.

- You treated yourself.

Kanami: I suppose so. PRS helped me well and I got it.

- Did you buy one you came across?

Kanami: No, I had them make it.

- Oh, did you make it to order? Wow, that’s impressive.

Kanami: You can find many of them sold at music stores, of course, but I thought their appeal was that you can customize them yourself, so I visited PRS and chose the designs, the specs, and the materials one by one with a person in charge of customization, like “Let’s go with this and this”.

- The Private Stock you had them make there was equipped with an ebony fretboard, Brushstroke inlays, 85/15 pickups, the Custom 24-08 circuit, a quilted maple top, and smoked black hardware, wasn’t it? That’s exactly the same specs as the Kanami Limited Edition.

Kanami: Since the Private Stock was my biggest goal as a guitarist, I definitely wanted to reflect it in the signature model this time. I also thought people would play this signature guitar as if it was a Private Stock if I kept the same specs as much as possible.

- I see, that’s why your Private Stock and the Kanami Limited Edition have the same specs.

Kanami: The Private Stock was so amazing that I wanted to tell how good it is. So, as for the top, I asked them to use quilted maple for it, but I heard the wood is extremely rare now.

- That’s right. They say it’s become really rare lately.

Kanami: Yes. I met Paul (Reed Smith) the other day, and he was like “Quilted maple has been really hard to get lately, but we’ll use all the quilted maple we have at PRS now for the Kanami Limited Edition”, and I was like “Really? I… I can’t believe it, thank you very much”. They say it’s that rare. So, I think it’s great that those who have bought a Kanami Limited Edition can play on the rare wood.

- As for electronics, both the Private Stock and the Kanami Limited Edition have the same 85/15 pickups and the same Custom 24-08 circuit, don’t they?

Kanami: Yes, because the 35th Anniversary model PRS has them and I like it. At servings, I’d like to go with just one guitar as much as possible, so it’s really nice I can turn it to single coil. That’s why I used the same specs for the Private Stock as well as for the signature guitar. It’s a guitar that makes you think “Wow, this guitar can do anything”. I always think it can really be used in any genre and I’d like everyone to feel the same way.

- And the best part is these position markers.

Kanami: They are called Brushstroke inlays, and they are rare apparently. Those inlays are the designs used for Paul’s Guitar, which was produced by Paul himself, and few PRS guitars out there have them.

- They are super cool.

Kanami: Yes, they are. Those who know about PRS will wonder like “What on earth are these?” I love the usual Bird inlays too, but since I was allowed to use these designs thankfully, I used them just like the Private Stock.

- That’s another great selling point.

Kanami: Thankfully they told me “Kanami-san, let’s put everything you want in your signature guitar” and I was like “I can’t believe it! If so, I’ll put them in” and chose the quilted maple top, these inlays, and smoked black hardware parts, which are even more chic than nickel parts.

- It’s manly, isn’t it?

Kanami: You’re right. Before I realized it, it had become a manly guitar (laughs).

- Since you had them make your Private Stock as the ultimate custom guitar, your signature guitar very naturally ended up having the same specs.

Kanami: The Trampas Green Custom 24 was my first PRS guitar, so I chose this color to express my determinations that “I won’t forget my beginner’s spirit” and “I will continue to move forward with this signature guitar”. I hope my feeling like that will come across.

- Frankly speaking, it’s such a versatile guitar that anyone can use it regardless of whether they copy Band-Maid songs or not.

Kanami: Oh, thanks for understanding. Yes, that’s the point. I’m very glad you said that. You should play it even if it weren’t my model or you didn’t know about me. It’s such an amazing guitar that I hope it will be used regardless of me.

- The truss rod cover has the Band-Maid logo on it, but it doesn’t stick out too much.

Kanami: You’re right. At first, we also had an idea of writing “KANAMI” on it, but I went with the ribbon symbol because I have no intention of playing the guitar other than in Band-Maid and I wanted to show my determination to play in Band-Maid. Also because you might hesitate to pick it up if it says “KANAMI”.

- You wouldn’t want a purchaser’s wife to say “Ugh, who the hell is this Kanami?”

Kanami: I don’t know if such a thing could happen, but I would hate it if it did (laughs).

- What were the reactions of your bandmates to this Kanami Limited Edition?

Kanami: They were all with me when I opened the case for the first time, and they were like “Wow, congratulations!” Then I showed it to everyone around me and I was like “Isn’t this amazing?” or “Don’t be jealous” (laughs) They brought two of the completed Kanami Limited Edition guitars to me, and I tried to pick one by checking sounds, and when I asked my bandmates to choose, they all unanimously chose this guitar like “I like this better”.

- It’s wonderful you all agreed on it.

Kanami: I think we all have the same opinion because we aim for the same sound.

- It’s such a nice episode.

Kanami: Do you think so? I really wouldn’t be able to continue the band without my bandmates. That’s why I think this signature guitar is very important to me and I’ll cherish it. I just started using it, and I think it will sound better and better. It already sounds great as it is, and I used it at Zepp Haneda the other day. It has a young and brand-new sound, which rather projects well. I think I’ll need to play it more to get the low range, but I like its brand-new sound, and it sounded so great at the first touch that I realized again how amazing PRS is.

- I’m looking forward to your continued success at servings and recordings. Thank you very much.


Paul Reed Smith The Kanami Limited Edition

Body: 

Body Construction: Solid body

Top Wood: Quilted Maple

Back Wood: Mahogany

Top Carve: Violin

Neck: 

Number of Frets: 24

Scale Length: 25″

Neck Wood: Mahogany

Neck Construction: One-Piece

Truss Rod: PRS Double-Acting

Neck Shape: Pattern Thin

Neck Depth at the 1/2 Fret: 53/64″

Neck Depth at the 12 1/2 Fret: 57/64″

Neck Width at the Nut: 1 11/16″

Neck Width at the Body: 2 1/4″

Fretboard Wood: Ebony

Fretboard Radius: 10″

Fretboard Inlay: Brushstroke Birds

Headstock Venner: Ebony

Headstock Logo: Signature, Inlaid

Neck/Body Assembly: 

Neck/Body Assembly Type: Set

Finish: 

Finish Type: High-Gloss Nitro

Hardware: 

Bridge: PRS Patented Tremolo, Gen III

Tuners: PRS Phase III, Locking

Hardware Type: Smoked Black

Nut: PRS

Truss Rod Cover: “Band-Maid Logo”

Electronics: 

Treble Pickup: 85/15

Bass Pickup: 85/15

Controls: Volume with Tone Control and 3-Way Toggle Pickup Switch and Two Mini-Toggle Coil-Tap Switches

Additional Info: 

Strings: PRS Signature 10-46

Tuning: Standard (6 Strings): E, A, D, G, B, E

Case: PRS ATA Multi-Fit Molded Case, D1 / Backplate hand-signed by Kanami Tono
